README.md, before:

# Solid Authorization Panel

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel](https://badges.gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel.svg)](https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel)

The mission of the Authorization Panel as part of the W3C Solid Community Group (CG) is to produce candidate proposals to the Solid ecosystem of specifications that satisfy use cases and requirements related to authorizing access to data in a Solid Pod.


## Work Items

|Work Item|Repository|Expected Completion|
|-|-|-|
|[Authorization Use Cases and Requirements](https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|
|[Authorization Use Cases Survey](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/uc-survey.md)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|
|[Access Control Policy](https://solidproject.org/TR/acp)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|


The Authorization Panel is undertaking the following initiatives, in priority order:
1. Document use cases and requirements for authorization ([Source](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/index.bs)).
1. Produce an authorization system specification to satisfy those use cases and requirements.
1. Propose mechanism(s) for client constraints.


## Participation

All contributors to any Work Items must be members of the Solid CG. It’s easy to [join the CG](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join).

Anyone can join the [Authorization Panel chat](https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel).

Online panel meetings occur sporadically on Wednesday, 14:00 UTC at https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization.

The [time and focus](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/325) of authorization meetings is currently being discussed.

Meetings are transcribed and [published](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/meetings/).


## Code of Conduct

All work and communication within the Solid CG is covered by the [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) and the [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).

Commit message:

Fix: refer to general and special CG meetings (#330)
* fix: refer to general and special CG meetings

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: Sarven Capadisli <info@csarven.ca>

README.md, after:

# Solid Authorization Panel

[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel](https://badges.gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel.svg)](https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel)

The mission of the Authorization Panel as part of the W3C Solid Community Group (CG) is to produce candidate proposals to the Solid ecosystem of specifications that satisfy use cases and requirements related to authorizing access to data in a Solid Pod.


## Work Items

|Work Item|Repository|Expected Completion|
|-|-|-|
|[Authorization Use Cases and Requirements](https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|
|[Authorization Use Cases Survey](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/uc-survey.md)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|
|[Access Control Policy](https://solidproject.org/TR/acp)|https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel|TBD|


The Authorization Panel is undertaking the following initiatives, in priority order:
1. Document use cases and requirements for authorization ([Source](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/index.bs)).
1. Produce an authorization system specification to satisfy those use cases and requirements.
1. Propose mechanism(s) for client constraints.


## Participation

All contributors to any Work Items must be members of the Solid CG. It’s easy to [join the CG](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join).

Anyone can join the [Authorization Panel chat](https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel).

The work items of the Authorization Panel are discussed during the following [Solid Community Group](https://github.com/solid/specification) meetings.

- **General meetings**: every _Wednesday_ from _14:00_ to _15:00_ UTC
- **Special topic meetings**: tentative on _Tuesdays_ from _14:00_ to _16:00_ UTC

Both meetings take place in the [solid-cg](https://meet.jit.si/solid-cg) Jitsi room. 

Please refer to the Solid Community Group [calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar) and the Special Topic Meetings [schedule]([url](https://github.com/solid/specification/discussions/555)) for more information. Every meeting is also announced on [Matrix][(https://gitter.im/solid/specification](https://matrix.to/#/#solid_specification:gitter.im)), with a link to its agenda. 


## Code of Conduct

All work and communication within the Solid CG is covered by the [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) and the [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).
