# 2019-08-28 Solid App Authorization Panel

## Merge Elf's Pull Request
 - https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/pull/23

## Discuss Michael's PR
 - https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/pull/18/files
 - zenomt: my PR needs two more things - placeholder for link relation and ...
 - Dmitri: can you explain URI template
   - zenomt: client knows that they will be place for redirect url, server can structure it however it wants
 - Dmitri: can you explain the expires attribute?
   - zenomt: if server manufactured link to request permission, it may include state but also information for how long this link stays valid
 - Dmitri: why 202 Accept? do you expect async processing?
   - zenomt: request can get accepted but not yet processed, you may actually need to go and process it yourself
   - Dmitri: i have concern that in some of the use cases, async part will not be needed and client may just redirect back, i would change it to MAY to optimize for simpler use cases. I find 202 great for server to server intercations, but since we often deal with browser applications it may not handle 202 that well.
   - zenomt: browser should get redirected to that url 
   - zenomt: if browser doesn't redirect to that url, it's up to resource server how to process that request, in most cases client should follow that link.
   - Dmitri: how do you feel about skipping the POST and directly returning management interface link interface in the 403 response.
   - zenomt: we don't want app to scrape this inteface and try to give itself permissions ...
   - zenomt: sometimes client may access RS not in a browser context
   - Dmitri: i think threat model of scraping interface applies the same if it uses POST
   - zenomt: browser should have session with RS server, for example cookie
   - PavliK: we should emphasise thise requirement for additional session with RS
   - Dmitri: I understand that you try to prevent crawlers from creating the additional endpoint.
   - zenomt: created URI needs to be unique for each request
   - Dmitri: do you requre that 403 response to have unique URI?
   - zenomt: yes ... that URI and only that URI needs to be sufficient to make that request without any cookies etc.
   - Dmitri: how do you see it interacting with 401 resonses?
   - zenomt: regarding 403 having static URI to management interface, server may not know what resource you requested access to
   - Dmitri: i thought redirect URI would handle that part
   - zenomt: URI that gets returned should act as capability
   - zenomt: as for 401 I see it as compleately different problem
   - Dmitri: in applications we've dealt so far we often get 401, 403 comes not that often
   - zenomt: now, but when we have more fine grained per app authorizations we will need more 403 responses
   - Pavlik: I miss illustrative use cases / real world scenarios which explain motivation for requrements this draft chooses to address
   - zenomt: some RS may have their owner to specify which apps can get used for certain interactions
   - Dmitri: I'm still stuck on that intermediate step, I don't see that POST necessary, it seems that original 403 response could handle it directly
   - zenomt: one of the ideas for separation, if app in the browser gets 403 with url to follow it should work, it doesn't cover situations where permission can be requested but there is on management interface for the user to interact with
   - Dmitri: I'm not seeing that part, stateful response in 403 still covers that unattended use case
   - zenomt: I see difference in what you intend to do with those links
   - Dmitri: what would be the case where request would not be accepted?
   - zenomt: If user encounters 500 server error
   - Dmitri: how does POST prevents that?
   - zenomt: ...
   - zenomt: I also imagine cases which don't have management interface at all, server can send admin email to check their queue.
   - Pavlik: I propose merging PR and crating label to track future issues related to this draft
   - Dmitri: Sounds great, that seems like a good process.
   - Dmitri: we should talk how to mark in ACL files where priv escalation is allowed

## Interop Panel
 - Process in PRs coming through
 - 
