# 2019-10-16 Authorization and Access Change Panel

## Present

* @bblfish
* @zenomt
* @JRoper18
* @elf-pavlik
* @jaxoncreed
* @dmitrizagidulin

## Logistics
 - elf-pavlik: On Monday we discussed considering proposals as 'member submissions' and stay liberal with accepting them. We don't assume that we will forward them as group finding, but we will keep them in mind while working on group findings.
 - Henry: I would be happy to have a proposal directory that all proposals go into.

### TODO
 - Everyone review Henry's proposal: https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/pull/47/files?short_path=1e97cee#diff-1e97cee15c943b5236674ee0a819f4c6

## Pull Requests

5 open PRs

### [Launcher App Proposal #47](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/pull/47)

- @jaxoncreed: Is it spec depending proposal?
- @bblfish: We try to solve a lot of things: identifying apps. App launcher acts as a keychain, for it to work it has to launch the app, this way it also knows app identity. Then it can pass messages and sign headers. I haven't how it would work in Android ecosystem, but I see not problem for it to work in web browsers.
- @jaxoncreed: I see that some of the things you propose stay more general than your app launcher proposal.  Possibly could also work with other approaches.
- @bblfish: I see need for ACL to include other ACLs, I think I might have put few different things in that proposal.


### [Initial terminology #32](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/pull/32)

- @elf-pavlik: Please review it by the end of this week so we can have it ready to merge before next weeks' call

## Issues

27 open Issues

### [Identifiers for applications #30](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/issues/30)

- @jaxoncreed: TimBL seems on board for all apps to have WebID and for Solid to operate around it. 
- @jaxoncreed: We want to use WebID instead of origin or redirect_uri. Many applications have web component and mobile component. One may not want to write different rules for the same app but on different platform.
- @dmitrizagidulin: what about apps which can not store secret or can not have WebID?
- @jaxoncreed: what apps can't have WebID
- @dmitrizagidulin: do we talk about clasical de-referencing WebID?
- @jaxoncreed: we consider extending current WebID with terms to describing apps, one of them would be a public key of the app, another redirect_uri. It would provide different ways for apps to prove their identity. I will submit longer wirteup to authentication panel.
- Michael: I think it would be super awesome if we had webids. The problem is the asymetric connectivity problem. It requires that the resource server needs to dereference the webid wherever it is. That would preclude any application that is in an enterpirse firewall from being able to call an external resource server. I think that might be an unacceptable constraint on the architecture of apps.
 - Henry:
     - I termed the word AppId for the WebID of the App in the Launcher App proposal
     - the advantage of an AppId is that one can link to an instance of an App for a user
     - the AppId can point to a manifest, different versions of the App for different platforms
     - The AppId for some apps can be protected
     - The AppId can link to the redirect-url
 - Elf: I understand the webID profile document couldn't be in the intranet. You could run the app inside of the firewall just the webID profile couldn't be behind the firewall.
 - Michael: Currently the one constraint that everything you want to talk to has to dereference your webid. It's a new constraint on the apps that we currently have.
 - @elf-pavlik: Michael's use case https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/21#issuecomment-535329520
 - ...
 - @jaxoncreed: We should consider those extra constaints and if adding them provides enough advantages to justify it.
 - @bblfish: If app is only intranet app, you can put your WebID/AppID inside of that intranet. I see big picture in the future that we move away from firewalls etc. We should look at use cases more precisely. Maybe one could have access changel on AppID and don't keep it public.
 - Michael: When we talk about an app identifier talking to a resource server, the user just claims an app is what it says. The question is who actually cares about the app's webid? Does the resource server actually care that it is a particular app or does it care that the user says it is some app.
 - Jackson: Justin may be coming around on your proposal to get RS to have some buy-in for this particular reason. TimBL cares about use case for user changeing resource to constrain which apps other users can use.
 - @dmitrizagidulin: I don't think its ethicaly correct and also I see it technically impossible
 - @jaxoncreed: We've proven that app identity can be embedded in token. Unless client and authrization server colude. With Michael's proposal it could also work for other users.
 - @zenomt: My proposal doesn't address it. Resource's Server Authorization Server issues the access token but it doesn't verify apps identity beyond what user claims it to be.
 - @jaxoncreed: I understan main reason beyond your proposal to have RS side change over token expiration etc. We operate under assumption that user's OS and browser are comliant. If RS side issues token and **redirects** it verifies the app identity.
 - @zenomt: It's inaproppriate for RS to trust that user's agent operates in anyone's behalf other than the user
 - @dmitri: Having RS redirect user's app negates our requirements for multi RS ecosystem
 - @jaxoncreed: we need to discuss with TimBL possibility to remove that use case
 - Elf: We have the authenticating clients issue in the authentication panel. And we should document all the thoughts we had in this meeting there. We have one option that says it's a user associated authorization server and the other is a resource server authorization app. If this extra redirect by resource server happens that would be the price to pay for this resource server enforcement. We should talk about these things in the authenticating clients issue. If we use the public key of the client, that would be based on the instance.
 - Henry: It's important with the webid work to have 2 specs: The webid is a url identifying an agent and webid tls which is how with authenticate a key. So I think we should have an app id which is a subset of webids. Then we can look at that app id as useful for linked data purposes. App ids can also link to public keys. Let's say we wanted to give access to some space for foreign apps. You could have an appid that says "this is a subset of me" If you have a launcher app which is a keychain. I think we can with the launcher app as the core part of the security, get somewhere close to a keychain.
 - Jack: Is it a good idea to allow the resource owner to dictate what app can be used
 - @jaxoncreed: we don't see this use case as very common, but we now want to question if it's even something that we want to make technicaly possible.
 - @dmitrizagidulin: it reminds me of DRM conversations
 - Elf: If the resource server wants to enforce the application token, then is it still impossible.
     - Dmitri: We're giving up the multi resource if we do that.
     - Elf: But it would only be for the specific use cases that have restrictions on clients that you use. The person can still use openid connect to authenticate.
  - @jaxoncreed: this ACL only prevents user claiming specific app to access something, only serving as certain protection agains social engeneering. It would not try to protect for cases where user coludes with app to use false identity.
  - @dmitrizagidulin: I think we spent to much time on this use case
  - @jaxoncreed: when we talk with TimBL that's the use case he talks about not the use cases we discuss where user has change over delegating some access to app they want to use.
  - @zenomt: In TimBL's use case, do we have whitelist of blacklist scenario
  - @jaxoncreed: originally the whitelist scenario, so user changeing the resource needs to give explicit approval to app
  - @jaxoncreed: i would vouche for blacklist scenario, allowed unless forbidden, ACL rules should be flexible, I would see all allowed one as default.
  - @zenomt: I wanted to clafiy if we talk about allowing apps or excluding apps. In my chat with TimBL on gitter I got impression that in RDF excluding things comes very hard.
  - @bblfish: OWL have formal way of doing exclusions in RDF
  - @zenomt: I was proposing approach for blacklisting users in ACL
  - elf: We should document a use case for exclusions.
  - @zenomt: UC: I wan't to make surprise party for Alice and invite group of friends but Alice (also member of that group) (to keep surprise part)

#### TODO
 - Jackson: write up app identifier proposal

### [Access Change should be the responsibility of BOTH the Resource Server and the Identity Provider, depending on the situation #43](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/issues/43)

## User Changeled Attenuated Access Change

