# 2019-09-25

 - Henry: Might be getting funding for phd work around generic access change rules that allow you to say things like Friend of a Friend has access. Exploring use of OWL.J See the access change of my [2nd year PhD report](http://co-operating.systems/2019/04/01/PhD_second_year_report.pdf). 
 - ... Also would be interested in feedback if  have captured the problem with [Http-Sig](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/18#issuecomment-534539775) correctly?
 - Dmitri: All for a tight focus on 2 projects: there is an issue as we work on these two things: Capability based authorization. At it's simplest we want to be able to share a resource with someone who doesn't have a webId yet. In general there are 2 access conrtol systems: rule based ones, and capabilities (permissions lie with the client). Verifiable credentials based access change. 

## Delegated Agents (Trusted Apps replacement)
 - Elf: could you explain delegated agents. Because I thought trusted apps says that you trust an app to do anything.
 - Jaxon: Current trusted apps supports access modes but global for everything. We weant to be able to identify application (agent) used. It should not care if agent is user or application. We need to decide if we want to restrice delegated agents of other people.
 - Michael: I think an app that I am using is very distinct from a delegate (like a secretary). In the case of an app, I want to be able to say this app can do a limited subset of things I can do, but only when I am using it. 
 - ...: currenlty we rely on PoP token expiration to ensure that user attends the application
 - Dmitri: you can always distinguish application doing something and user on who's behalf application action on. I agree with everything Michael said.
 - Michael: One of the use cases we're thinking of is the secretary case. I feel that is related to but different from the app that I am using right now?
 - Do you see the user experience between these two things as being different:
     - Michael: I do see the user experience being different because there's multiple ways that it could go. The bot is like another friend. But if this bot is essentially being me, that's a different flow.
 - Dmitri: Proposal Terminology wise:
     - App (a user always drives them)
     - Services (Bots have their own identity and can interact with the system via that identity)
     - Delegated Agents (Bots or people who access things as me) 
        see paper [Extending the WebID Protocol with Access Delegation](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237150379_Extending_the_WebID_Protocol_with_Access_Delegation)
 - Extra question: are we working with the capability of web agents as they exist now - where they can share all the information to their
     ... origin, or are we also thinking of working in a world where say JavaScript [Confinement with Origin Web Labels](https://www.w3.org/TR/COWL/) exists that provides security on where information can land.
 - Elf: To respond to it doesn't matter if we talk about services bots or people. Right now it would make sense for Alice to not be able to delegate access to Bob. So you shouldn't be able to delegate to another person. We don't want infinite chains of delegating accsess. I don't think we can say in most cases is it a webid of a person or a webid of an app.
 - Dmitri:
     - We may want to think about ways to limit transitive delegation.
     - I was mentioning capabilities before. A lot of them were made by Mark Miller. The capabilities community has oriented itself against .acl. 
     - Don't forbid stuff you can't enforce. We won't be able to limit transitivity.
     - Do we see a future where the privacy parts of webapps is reduced? It's not about the privacy risk, it's that apps are not advanced enough a person needs to drive them. It's not that the origin gets private info about the user, it's that apps don't have agency or secure storage.
 - Jaxon: In reponse to need for separating users , services etc. I see value to have generic way working with any kind of agent.
 - Dmitri: I agree that we want a unified interface for bots and apps. But I think we'll need two different mechanisms, one for limiting apps and the other for services. I don't think we can come up with a mechanism for both of them. Just on a terminology perspective one has agency and the other does not. The distinction is why you're limiting stuff. We shouldn't be able to restrict that apps that other people are using.
 - Henry: How does a JS app (JS being turing complete) differ from an agent?
 - Dmitri: ... 
 - Elf: We want to keep an eye on which responsibility we want to put where. With the request for the resource there should be a way to find the authorization that the user granted. App / Bot would need to somehow present to the RS the authorization granded from the User, since RS only knows about Users having access and nothing about applications / bots.
 - Write something based on these use cases:
     - App
     - Bot
     - Secretary
 - Henry: What is problematic with [Extending the WebID Protocol with Access Delegation](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/237150379_Extending_the_WebID_Protocol_with_Access_Delegation)?
 - Dmitri: That paper because it used WebID-TLS it only works with 2nd and 3rd use case but as it identifies the user, it does not work for JS Apps use case, where we need to in effect limit the usage of an app to a server (so it's a kind of delegated restriction of usage).
 - Michael: WebID-TLS the certificate is not under change of the javascript so we can trust the agent - the Origin field is a safe way to determine the User agent.
## Filter-based access change

## Capabilities Authorization?
