# 2019-11-13 Authorization and Access Change Panel

## Present

* Jackson
* Elf
* Dmitri
* Michael
* Henry

## Issues

### Continuing Discussion of App Metadata (App Profile)

See previous notes:
https://hackmd.io/K2_a0OBRSMKcNhVQwaJ85g#App-Metadata-Object-App-Manifest
and
https://hackmd.io/K2_a0OBRSMKcNhVQwaJ85g#App-Metadata-Requirements

- Initially termed "App Profile", but we have two fundamentally different use cases that it needs to serve, and likely will require two different profiles.
- 1) "Source" metadata (aids user in deciding whether to use the app). Analogous to an app store entry or NPM package page. App homepage / developer / app rating is relevant here.
- 2) Instance metadata (registry entry). Used for app authorization/authentication flows. (Now that the user has decided to use the app, how do we communicate that the app asking for permission is the same app that the user has decided on.) `redirect_uri` is relevant here.

- Dmitri: The general topic of app metadata is around the idea that as part of "app access change" we need identifiers for applications. Sometimes those identifiers can be strongly identified like an app having it's own server and domain name, or not like that such as in the case of iot devices. It's helpful for these apps to have their own version of a webid profile. Some kind of document that contains metadata. And there are various fields that go into app metadata. Fields like the source identity of the app. So there are a couple of key questions:
    - There are 2 types of metadata. One about the general app and one about the installed instance. Should there be two documents

### Shapes supported by App
 - Elf: Information about what shapes an app can edit

## Access Tokens

### authorization_details (OAuth 2.0 Rich Authorization Requests)

https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-lodderstedt-oauth-rar-03#section-3

* type -> shape
* actions -> WAC access mode
* locations -> LDP resource (also container)

 - Elf: I would like to clarify how similar our requirements are to the draft proposed by justin richer. There are different types or shapes that can be supported by the resource.
 - Elf: There are a lot of things in this proposal that can map onto our problem.
 - Dmitri: This draft expands the idea of scopes. You can still have scopes like opaque strings, or in addition you can have scopes that are objects instead of strings. Those objects have properties that are similar to what we're doing. Like what actions an app can take. It's an expansion of the idea of scopes
 - ...: It does work well in the model we're trying to produce. We still need to take some actions on how to map this. It's worth taking a look into.
 - Elf: To emphasize. I think we should reuse as much existing concepts for validation and discovery.
 - Elf: Michael suggested that we shouldn't expect some kind of commonly understood access tokens. I don't think there should be specific rich access tokens. But we need to make them a part of the spec to interoperate.
     - Michael: Having one access token that you can reuse in multiple resource servers. If I use an access token at one server I shouldn't be able to turn around and use it somewhere else. 
 - Elf: We need to have a commonly understood scope / authorization_details between resource servers and clients.
 - Dmitri: There are two different types of access change systems: identity bases or capability based. Identity based could break things down into "Here are the attributes that you're based on." Access tokens in the classical oauth2 sense are the capability model and there is not support for a capability model in Solid yet. So, we can't use access tokens for now. We always have to use an identity credential.
     - Elf: If the client presents a client constraint access token, the resource server only needs to verify the token and then the token has information on the user and it doesn't need to verify the client identity beyond that. We don't want to require the resource server to have knowledge of a client. So that's a bit of a difference.
         - Dmitri: Putting aside client identity and focusing on user identity. WAC is an identity based system. The resource server always has prior knowledge of which users have access to what. Now with app identity, we always have these tuples of user identity + app identity. So, given that we have a rule based access change system, it doesn't make sense to have access token terminology. Access tokens are capability based terminology.
     - Jackson: I agree with elf about RS not having proior knowledge about apps user wants to use. And we want to restrict app access. The OP/AS can restrict what app can do. This sounds like capability access change. We many need to do both to handle use cases we work with. Calendar app should only access calendar related things in the whole 'solidverse'. RS have user identity based ACL.
     - Dmitri: I agree that we should have both. I want to clarify that it depends on whose RS it is, if its users RS user should be able to restrict app access. It may not be possible for 'others' RSs.
     - Jackson: Bob may want to access calendar event on Alice's server and use some client. Bob may not want that client to access anything lese that calendar events on Alice's RS (or any other RS)
     - Elf: RS can assume that user doesn't cheat and simply honor what access that user delegated to that client.
     - Dmitri: I'm having trouble picturing it from a ux workflow.
     - Jackson: Bob finds a new calendar app, and logins to it with solid. He gets consent screen that this app wants to access 'calendar event' kind of things (shape, tag whatever we decide). Then that access gets included in access_token issued for this client by Bob's OP/AS. Later app sends that token to Alice's RS and that RS should check what access Bob delegated to that app. Launcher App would get id_token back, app registers with Launcher App, when app makes request than Launcher App verifies if that client has sufficient access granted by the user.
     - Elf: I find it useful to distiunguish the social layer and the software layer. In many cases there will be social based sharing. Like someone from the solid project shares a resouce and it uses social identifiers like webIDs. We would never have a case where the user authenticates directly with a resource server. There's always a client in between. Each of use would be able to delegate some access to a client. The resource server needs to know it's not asked directly and the client needs to have some kind of token that represents the client. It's important to have this difference between social agents and clients.
 - Henry: I think that the level on which Dmitri is asking about access change and capabilities is the right level. The capabilities systems are more based on centralized systems and they all assume an operating system. So, I think this is a very fundemental question that dmitri is asking. And it could make decisions a lot faster. There's no doubt that you need OAuth for intergration with servers. But if you listen with a tuned ear people are always talking about centralized systems. The capability model is important because you want to limit what the app is able to do. You don't need a capability system to do that. That's what the whole launcher app is needed. When the oauth people present it they say its a capability system not an identity system. Most developers are using it wrongly. Capabilities system.
 - Jackson: When I think about app authrization, often I don't care about which RS that app will access. Still I just want to give it access to some subset of information across all those RSs.
 - Elf: We need to keep in mind that most app clients are special purpose. They're not general file browsers. Most responsible apps will say "this is the only information I want to have access to." Only a sharing app or a data browser would have general access.
 - Henry: I think the interesting question is how do access tokens work in a distributed web. It's important for the client to know which identities to choose. When you move to credentials it makes a lot of sense. How can you do a decentralized webs with just tokens with no meaning.

### Proposal for Monday
 - Elf: Let's follow up on user authentication on monday. Because the user never accesses the server via a pure browser.
 - Henry: There is something in "The logic of security", there is a notion of "someone says something" and you can easily get something where someone speaks for one. This would happen when you use an app to speak for you. If you go to download a javascript app from the web and it's using your tokens. So that's a huge weakness in a system where there's no trusted code. 
