# 2019-11-20 Authorization and Access Control Panel

## Present

* @jaxoncreed
* @bblfish
* @elf-pavlik

## Issues


### Jackson's vacation

- Jackson: I will stay on different timezone next 2 weeks, meetings would be 4am for me.

### Do we require refresh tokens ?

https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/38

 - Elf: I was going over issues and one that I closed, Michael says that his implementation does not implement refresh tokens. We may require that authorization servers need refresh tokens. Because in some specific cases you might need to do the oauth flow. Which means they would need some refresh tokens. It would be a problem with interop that some people need to provide refresh tokens.
 - ...: I'll go through openid connect. I think it's best to follow up and check with Michael. Why didn't he implement them.

## Pull Requests

### [Privacy of User's authorizations granted to Clients #52](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/pull/52)

- Jackson: I'm going to reword
- Henry: It seems like RS needs to 'think for the client'. It would need to see information about clients.
  - elf: user may only have read access to the resources on that RS
- Henry: I find it a tortureous approach. Launcher App handles it in a different way. You wouldn't need to share these restrictions with a server. I think the launcher app could easily be the place where the OAuth2 things are happening. So it could give the token as needed based on the user's policy.
    - Jackson: That is a big plus for the launcher app, RS doesn't need to know about authorizations for specific clients.
- Elf: You could develop a server side solid client and that would not allow you to do the launcher app scenario would work with offline support.
- Henry: I need to think about those server-side solid clients use cases.
- Elf: I decided to close the issue about having each user having a solid proxy. They could still go through the proxy and the proxy would have user credentials. The delegation process would go though the proxy. But still I think that we could handle that gracefully with OAuth. I just closed this issue because we can handle it more gracefullly with OAuth. https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/35
    - Henry: I think that's an interesting idea. The idea of a proxy on the server and a proxy in the browser. They seem like they're doing similar things. If they are doing the same thing, they should be as isomorphic as possible. Perhaps it happens in the browser, perhaps it's reliable enough to be done on the server. I see doing it on the client as more P2P approach.
- Jackson: regardless of those detials, I think it's good to have in success criteria's?
  - Henry: can we say no RS gets any of that information?
  - Henry: I see it complex to give access to RS to those authorizations.

### Link to conference room in README

- Mitzi: We can get ... for calls


### Spec writing day

- Mitzi: What do you think about having day where we all stay online and work on writing spec.
  - elf: how this would work across timezones?
  - Mitzi: I try to get more diversity of professions represented in conversations. We could have some rotating schedule to switch timezones.
  - Jackson: I wonder how effective it would be. It feels little more formal, nice to break into individual groups.
  - Henry: W3C TPAC rotates across timezones
  - Mitzi: 2019 was in Japan and for many people it wasn't financially accessible.
  - ericP: 2018 was in Portugal
