# 2019-09-18 Solid App Authorization Panel 🗓️

## Present 👥

* elf-pavlik
* zenomt
* jaxoncreed
* dmitrizagidulin

## Broaden panel scope, or defer until dependencies are ready? ✅

https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/issues/36

- jaxoncreed: I had big discussion with Ruben about it recently
- ...: Ruben worked in recent years with TimBL at MIT, he has a lot of experience in the subject
- ...: We've been assuming that ACL remain constant, Ruben suggested not to make that assumption
- ...: Currently we have two ways of handling apps auth: Trusted Apps and ACL Origin
- ...: This leads to next topic of focus on "Trusted Apps", this would reconcile delegated access as well
- Elf: Agreed. I know Ruben's work from n3.js and linked data fragments and the hydra community group and resdesk. So I recognize he has experience with RDF technologies. So strong plus one to reconsile delegated access.
- Dmitri: Is there talk 
- jaxoncreed: Authentication Panel will keep focsing on authentication, it should run its course by the end of December. App Auth doesn't have that deadline
- dmitri: what about general ACL? which repo do we open issues for post 1.0 proposals?
- Michael: where does the December deadline come from?
- jaxoncreed: when we created panels we already had that initial goal, but this panel will contiue beyond this 'deadline'. This milesone exists to get better version of the spec for implementation to rely on.

ACTION: jaxoncreed to clarify panel roadmap, milestones, deadlines

PROPOSAL: borader panel scope to access control (which also includes app authorization)

- elf-pavlik: +1
- zenomt: +1
- jaxoncreed: +1
- dmitri: +1

- no objections

ACTION: Rename the panel to "Authorization and Access Control"


## Project Proposal: Focus on "Trusted Apps" ✅

https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/issues/39

- jaxoncreedd: current use cases mostly focus on authorizing apps

 - Required Expanded Use Cases
     - Use cases for different kinds of agents (ie humans)
     - Use cases for ACCESS CONTROL
     - Secure Clients vs Public Clients
     - Restrict the type of content made available in a resource by sepcificying the a shape to which one can allow in an .acls (access to a type). Can also be thought of as filtering.
     - Provide access to all things of a type
     - Verfiable credentials access control

- dmitri: user registers the app with their own OPP, in unattended user is not present for the auth flow
- jaxoncreed: now it seems to intersect more with data interop panel, eg. using data shapes in ACL
- Henry: Bergos was working on triple level authentication (https://github.com/bergos, http://ceur-ws.org/Vol-1268/paper13.pdf)

Projects:
 - Filter based access control
 - Delegated Agents

## Identifiers for applications  ✅

https://github.com/solid/app-authorization-panel/issues/30

 - Elf: It's a general challenge to clearly identify and enforce those limit on applications.
 - jaxoncreed: we discussed that applications would have to have WebID, for example put origin, also for each platform it would work differently.
 - dmitri: this keeps coming keeps coming keeps coming up. But there are many apps that can't have a webID. This is where the app identity comes full circle. There are 3 layers to app identity:
     - What does the UI look like? (what user sees on the consent screen)
     - A Persistent Identity for the App
     - The App Instance (where it is actually deployed or installed) - this is where the app uri and origin comes in
     - Ephemeral identity (in browser js apps)
 - Dmitri: you need a persistant app identity (app source) for the app so stores and repositories can refer to it.
 - Henry: If you allow agents to be descibed by properties, then you could have rules that say "I allow an app from this origin, or from this origin with this key, or with this id." You could make access control rules a form of description logic.
 - Elf: Especially for web apps we need to have a clear terminogy to distinuish public and secure clients.
 - jaxoncreed: even in SPA one can create puclic page for app WebID
 - Dmitri: we again come to relying on Origin header, which in some cases can get spoofed
 - ...: OAuth2 or OIDC registration gives app kind of webid
 - Dmitri: I see apps and humans fundementally different, we can aim for consistency but still will find different requirements.
 - jaxoncreed: I think we should distinguish between app and person
 - elf-pavlik: what assertions we would want to place in app WebID?
 - jaxoncreed: this WebID denotes app with this origin, or this redirect url
 - bblfisn: some examples of possible app ontology
 
 ```
{ App a owl:Class; } App ontology
{ <https://cool.app/Cool#> subclassOf App. } on the app writer's server
{ <https://lisa.me/apps/cool#Instance> a CoolApp . } on Elisa's server
```

