# 2019-10-02

## Overlap between authentication and access change panels
 - Elf: Let's clarify a few concepts: In authentication we have an openid provider that acts as a authorization server. The access token received in the openid flow is the access the user-info endpoint which works as a combination server and resource server. But, since we have multiple resource servers, so far we are forwarding the id_token and practically just authenticating the resouce server. We need to clarify those semantics and who the audience is. I also see with trusted apps (a product that was quickly invented). We have a notion of representing authorizations between different people. I think we may consider acutally having an authorization server that would take some responsibitities of having more granular access. And the client would request access to the resource server. Do we want to have actual authorization servers that are not just openid, but would have the ability to issue an access token for a user's resource server.
 - Michael: To clarify about access tokens from an openid server. The openid allows for additional scopes of access for whomever holds that token. So, in addition to oauth, you can get an id token that says who you are, and also the access tokens which can have different scopes.
 - Michael: About authorization servers that are tied to the resource server, I made a proposal about that.

### Scopes
 - Elf: If an access token has a scope and we want it to apply to different servers, there could be solid-specific scopes that could issue. The resource server could directly honor scope
 - Jaxson: If resource server doesn't issue tokens, thein IdP does it and RS doesn't have buy in to it. 
 - Elf: If we look at the current trusted app approach, it gives a scope. So trusted apps has a notion of scope which is public. So I think we have a notion of scopes that we respect resource servers to honor.
 - Michael: Scopes in whatever token the id provider could be useful to limit the access, so you could immagine an .acl that grants access to a resource, but the scope represses the app. I think there are a couple of issues in putting scopes in like that: We would need to come up with a common vocabulary for scopes. There's also the privacy issue of using this token with multiple servers. Putting scopes in the token isn't a good idea because of this.
 - Michael: I had talked about an idea of using tags with .acls. You would assign permission for whatever app you're using, so that's one thing you could do.
 - Jaxson: I see reasons to use scopes equivalent for trusted apps. I don't share the same concerns about privacy aspects, there might be some solution.
 - Elf: To clarify, I don't see that the same access token would be used accross multiple resource servers. I would see the client make a request to each resource server, so the token would have an audience of each resource server. The client would make a request to the authorization server saying I want to make a request to this resource server.
 - Jaxon: I see issue with client telling AS which RS it want's to use it with. Once you do that we loose a lot of multi pod query. We want client not to care about which RS resource is on.
 - Michael: On getting a different access token for each resource server: you currently have to get that token through something that can't be spoofed. You'd either need a flash UI.
 - Elf: I don't see a need that a user would give consent per resource server. It should be able to automatically get tokens for each resource server. We would use the JWT token grant. We could make clients authenticate its token request for the authorization server. [JSON Web Token (JWT) Profile
      for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and Authorization GrantsHe](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7523#section-3.1)
 - Jaxon: I like the idea about scopes, it needs more thought how to do it in a way we use trusted apps. Giving this responsibility to IdP makes a lot of sense to me. We should address issues about privacy and defining vocabulary.
 - Henry: What's wrong with doing this in the .acl? So I'm going to see if I can do the same thing with .acls.
 - Henry: I find it hard to grasp that IdP would issue those scoped tokens, we may discuss questions of scopes independently from ACL and OAuth. 
 - Jaxon: I want to constrain apps to do subset of permissions which user has oneself.
 - Michael: Regarding where scopes would go: https://zenomt.zenomt.com/acl-thoughts.md. I talk about "tags" which are basically like scopes. You could put a tag on a particular authorization on an .acl. Talking about a tag would replace acl:origin in an authorization. You could say that it's assigned to a tag somehow. That would be assigned through what I would imagine is a permission request. When it's managed by the identity provider then you have the scope vocabulary problem, but if it's at the resource server we could assign it to the acl.
 - Henry: this is a way of specifying restrictions. Server gives rights, signer of tokens asks for restrictions.
     - Elf: the user wants to restrict the client. The user has access and wants to restrict access.
 - Elf: I think tieing back to the overlap. If we want to give more responsibility to the openid provider. Or do we need to have the app independently register with the openid provider. We need to clarify how we identify the app. However we choose to identify the client needs to be working for both.
 - Jaxon: We can't require static registration with IdP in solid ecosystem. We can safely dentify app by its redirect_uri
 - Jaxon: Resoruce Server does not hav buy-in restricting applications. It's left to User and their Identity Provider. I see that Michael's tags approach RS would have buy-in. I see drawback in usability 
 - Elf: I didn't mean static registration I meant dynamic registration. I see some possible issues when it comes to refresh tokens. Using refresh tokens require client authentication. So if we have a case of a public client it won't get a client secret. I think there are possible issues if. It seems to use a private key but it's not extractable. I made this diagram: https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/issues/30#issuecomment-537168286 there are quite a few approaches clients can use.
 - Jaxon: If I have the token representing me I shoud have change over delegating this token.

Look Into:
 - Privacy and vocabulary definitions for scopes

## Filter Based Access Change
 - Elf: shape based access change will be connected to discovery. It's possibly bound together. If I want to give an app access to contacts it needs to understand contacts.
 - Michael: Tim mentioned something for filter based access change, and he expressed the opinion that it should be at the resource level and I agree with that. I think that it starts to get really complicated about what a resource is and when you go to update a resource that gets complicated too. And mostly that the current access change model is about URIs. Not saying in the far future we could do something more specific. Getting deeper than just the resource level might have remifications. Also we might find it doesn't make sense.
 - Elf: Ruben's post about shapes, forms, and footprints (https://ruben.verborgh.org/blog/2019/06/17/shaping-linked-data-apps/) We also discussed data validation. And if you can validate the data conforms to a certain shape, you can also check that a permission refers to a certain shape, we can use that for validation, discovery and other things.
 - Jaxon: If we don't do granular shape validation, we still may need to have some way to restrict access to apps.
 - We might avoid reinventing the wheel by looking at this:
   - https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-grant-2.0.html
   - https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/rec-oauth-uma-federated-authz-2.0.html
 
## Capabilities based Authorization
