# 2019-10-23

## Present
 - Michael
 - Dmitri
 - Henry
 - Jackson

## Tag Proposal
 - https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-control-panel/issues/48
 - Michael: Tags are an indirection step that would allow the resource owner to create a map between classifications of access.
 - Jackson: I have concerns over tags being plain with no semantic meaning.
     - Michael: I think any practical vocabularies need to be uri based, but based on experience, having the ability to do wildcarding will be extremely valuable.
 - Dmitri: My overall feeling about the tag proposal is that it's placing the cognitive burden on the resource owner too much. We would be asking too much to have developers coming up with tags for the app. I think the model for the mobile app manufacturers would be better, but we need to make it more interoperable. The Pod would give it's own scopes and then apps give their scopes.
 - Henry: I think we need a way to define collections of resources using wildcards. Tagging apps using a link relation will be somewhat simple. You could tag it as a calandar resource. If the app launcher does all the fetching then you could use an ontology. But I think it should be ontology based. Not just tags. I definitely would try to go for a URL based tagging system. 
 - Jackson: should to attribute based access control
     - Michael: If we wanted to unify users themselves and specify users with attributes we don't want to be centralized.
     - Henry: It's okay to concentrate on resources describing themselves as being certain resources. There are vocabularies that are widely used with which one could start. We already have a tagging system. It's called mime types. You could have the app do access control or the server use it using attribute based access
 - Michael: If the app with its request for the access token is sending in the access control for itself then the default has to be "No access unless this resource is provided". 
 - Jackson: If you can do access control as a resource owner, then you should be able to do it on behalf of the user
     - Micheal: I agree
 - Henry: It puts a lot of effort on the server to do this, so this should be done by the client which is why we should use the launcher app. It still means the tags have to be there on the remote resource for that to be done. 

## Should the resource owner have the tools to constrain apps?
 - Michael: I have not problem with providing tools as long as it is affirmed that the user can spoof the app that is being used and not guaranttee the app.
 - Dmitri: I disagree. I think the focus is wrong. They're there to constrain peoples own apps not other people's apps.
 - Henry: The launcher apps removes a lot of necessity to do that. The more constraints you put on access the more difficult it is. If you put too many constraints, then you can't cooperate. In some way the pragmatics of this situation. I don't think there's ethically a reason not to allow it.
 - Jackson: How does the launcher app remove the necissity to do this:
     - Henry: Because the launcher app knows about each app and it can look at those policies to decide when to give a token to an app the access a resource.

## Launcher App
 - https://github.com/bblfish/LauncherApp
 - Jackson: Can the launcher app work on: Web, Desktop, Android, and iOS, and Server Side
 - Henry: I built the demo for the web. It's something to look into for everything else.
 - All apps are run inside the environment of the launcher app.

## App Registry / Index
 - Updating https://github.com/solid/solid/blob/master/proposals/data-discovery.md and https://github.com/solid/solid/blob/master/proposals/app-discovery.md, and how it relates to app authorization.
 - Dmitri: I wanted to talk about the type index and app index. So far the only proposals we discussed, the rules live in each resource's acl files. Having information in the app registry allows for a Do Not Repeat yourself mechanism. The user's consent to a certain app's request is kept in the app registry rather than the .acl.
 - Dmitri: The registry would be linked to by the user profile.
 - Dmitri: The tag discussion places the actual rule defintions in a separate file
 - Michael: How do you structure things where the app can't modify the access control rules that it gives to the resource server? That's one of the things that's giving me trouble with the tag system. 
