# 2019-12-11 Authorization and Access Change Panel

## Present

* @bblfish
* @jaxoncreed
* @elf-pavlik
* @justinwb

## Issues

### [Thoughts on capabilities/identity based access change #53](https://github.com/solid/authorization-and-access-change-panel/issues/53)

#### Overall Concept
 - Elf: Overall, I do like this kind of system. I think there are a few details that we would need to go over. And weeks ago I think we already touched some of them. I like the fact that there's an authorization server that's responsible for changeling apps
 - Henry: How does it fit with what we discussed on Monday?
    - Jackson: token would incude authorization details in whatever format we decide to represent it. At least with RS enforcement approach.
    - Henry: Dmitri tends to say that access change and capabilities should come together.
- Justin: My concern is that there's not enough information here to evaluate the approach clearly. The diagram is nice, but we're talking about competing appraches, and there's very little context about the meat of it. The issue seems to be a reporting of what's being deliberated in the discussions. There needs to be a bit more substance on the approach and the reasons for the approach. How do these 3 competing ideas satisfy the main pattern. Because in essence, the authorization system is extremely central to what Solid is, and it's something that's documented well enough to get fair evaluation for the panel at large. Tim will need that because his default will be "you're overcomplicating this." So it needs a well explained background. I think we just need to get a bit more of what that is documented.

#### Implementation Feeback
 - Jackson: This is an iteration on this: https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec/blob/master/application-user-workflow.md
 - ...: Now app has WebID which gets used to identify the app. Dmitri plans to also use `redirect_url`. Not related to any User or on device app instance.
 - ...: Based on Alice's consent, OP+AS would persist the authorization granted to the client/app. Later app could request specific token for Bob's RS which would get generated based on that persisted authorization.
 - Justin: step 9 suggests that app/client wants to access something specific. I don't think ACLs are designed for this. 
 - elf-pavlik: i see here combintaion of shape/tag plus access mode to each of them.
 - Henry: I see it confusing to think of ACL on the client.
 - Jackson: I was concerned about added complexity of using different system.
 - Henry: we can use the same vocab/ontology just don't call it ACL
 - Jackson: We can call them scopes.
 - Justin: I think I would look at this as not a replacement on what we do today. I would look at it as another layer. I would worry first about explaining in document form about what it is and what it's not.
 - Elf: Currently Solid doesn't have real functionality for what we're talking about. That's what I think we should look at replacing. The part we're talking about now is that the user can delegate a subset of one's own client to delegation. That doesn't exist. I see this as a new part.
 - Elf: https://tools.ietf.org/id/draft-lodderstedt-oauth-rar-01.html We can use the terminology here. 
 - Elf: We would probably also want to add some kind of authorization response to alert the RP of what the user actually selected.
 - Jackson: it looks that we agree on general mechanism, we still need to look into describing those authorization details, maybe extending WAC or reconciling it with that RAR draft in IETF.
 - Henry: Launcher app has similar requirement, it does not give out token or sign anything if it doesn't fit requirement for the app.

#### Should we use ACL or different system like new OIDC scopes

#### Capabilities Enforcement

- Jackson: we have Launcher app running on client device, app uses some API to make requests via launcher app. In RS Enforcement app has the tokens and RS enforces the rules. In User Proxy the proxy can run outside of device.
- Elf: If we have some kind of shape based enforcement. If it's the resource server, it can easily resolve things based on shape. If it's a proxy based system, then it will need to request a whole resource to resolve its shape.
- Justin: As written, I'm not a fan of this approach. But, I want to make sure that I'm giving it a fair shake. I think that we need a bit more context around what the approach is and isn't. "Does not work for offline bots" is an instant disqualification. There is a need for a designated authorization app that has root access, but the user identifies. The app can help a user make decisions, but those decisions should be enforced by some technique that works everywhere.
    - Henry: On the "does not work for offline bots" that's not determinate. For "requires a launcher app implmentation for every platform" I'd have to think about that. It was called the launcher app because I was thinking of the browser client as a use case.
- Elf: One big pro for resource server enforcement is that it uses a lot of OAuth2. There is a draft that links to existing authorization requests. From how I understand Henry's proposal, I don't think it focuses very much on OAuth2. But, I see it as more experimental in my opinion, but it doesn't have as much implementation experience as OAuth2. I do see a big advantage to building off of an established technology. 
    - Henry: I don't mind where you go because I'm writing my Phd and I have other things to do, so I'm not going to push anything here. My skeptism is does it address the decentralized use case that Solid is trying to do. And from what I've seen, that's not on their radar. Unless you have a way of reading an access change list, you're going to have trouble building a decentralized system. The architectual question requires really deep knowledge of Solid and OAuth.
- Elf: We can solve refresh tokens by using the client credentials grant. Reusing same proof of possesion keys as credentials.
- Jackson: RS Enforcement requers thought from preventing other RS's from knowing information not intended for them. User Proxy and Launcher App doesn't require it.
- Justin: I would like to know real use case.
- Jackson: I have preferences for image manipulations. My friend's RS doesn't need to know about those permissions for the app when it requests resources on his RS.
- Justin: It hapens due to encoding in the access token capabilities that app has.
- Jackson: OP could filter it out when it knows which RS tokens should be issued for.
- 
