# 2020-07-15 Authorization Panel

## Agenda

* Panel Process - https://github.com/solid/process/pull/206
* WAC Use Cases Draft - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/84
* [Next week agenda]()

## Present

* Justin B
* [Henry Story](https://twitter.com/bblfish)
* Davi
* Dmitri Z
* Jackson M
* e Pavlik
* Josh C


## Minutes

### WAC Use Cases Draft

- Justin: Requirements should be informed by use cases. Let's try to figure out if we have good coverage of use cases first.
- ...: I would like to call out use cases which have requirements not satisfied by current WAC documentation.

- HS - Change "Conventional WAC" to "Current WAC"
- HS - Change to "can prove identity"
- You can go to [bikeshed](https://tabatkins.github.io/bikeshed/) and enter the URL for [the raw version of the PR](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solid/authorization-panel/fa0b53ebad3e6e053852cb21d864b30605d1cea2/proposals/wac-ucr/index.bs) and get the full version to be shown

- EP - need to expand application use cases, either section or spread them through the use cases

- HS - re: applications - recognize fundamental principles. It would be useful to have a use case that is the dual of the privacy use case in the current draft. The current draft looks at the resource owner not wanting different people  seeing who else has access. The dual client side pricacy point is that the client needs to find out what access is allowed without needing to randomly try all his credentials, as that would lead the client to be forced to leak identity information.

- JB - will submit a use case about some constrained change permissions

- JM - I think we need a specific use case for conditional access change. 

## Actions

- All panel members to confirm Solid W3C CG membership
- Pavlik to look at extending github actions to render bikeshed templates on draft branches / 
- Pavlik to add UC reusing existing group of agents rather than creating one just for optimising access rules
- Justin to finish use case cleanup and mark as ready for review
- Justin to start in on requirements

