# 2021-05-19 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization


## Agenda

* Minutes https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/214
* Use Case 1: Resource Access https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/215
* Use Case 3: Inheritance https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/216

### If time allows (from previous week)
* Inheritance with [Referenced Data Grants](https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/specification/#datamodel-referenced-data-grant) (interop panel)
  * UC [Conditional access by relationship](https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#conditional-relationship)
  * Can we 'search and replace' `Report` -> `Project` and `Measurement` -> `Task`? This will align it with scenario used in interop spec, primer, and shape trees spec


## Present

* E Pavlik
* Henry Story
* Matthieu B
* Justin B


## Minutes

Elf: Could we show best practice of how the statements are divided between resources?


Justin: There are a number of use cases that rely on creating and deleting things. Are we satisfied with the notion of using WAC modes across the board, and if so, are they sufficient to satisfy the use cases that we have? (Deletion/Creation)

Matthieu: The idea is to use ACL modes and add new ones as needed.

Justin: ACL modes as they stand might be insufficient for some use cases. Probably we could address the use cases and flag where the defficiency shows.

Henry: We can try to see if it works with what we have and if not we can see if we need a new mode.

Elf: How is deleting of an ACR supposed to work?

Matthieu: A control resource can not be deleted since it is server managed. Only when the resource itself is deleted does the control goes.

Henry: In this ACP example, it might help to have the relative URLs and the resources. It helps thinking about it.

Elf: :-1: to relative :thumbsup: CURIEs. We could also just use TRIG and have the graph name standing for resource name. It is confusing to the point that you'd think you can change what is the ACR of the resource 1.

Elf: created issue regarding permission on Access Policy Resources https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/217

### Inheritance

Henry: When creating a webserver, you want it to contain access control rules to be able to edit resources.
It's only an access control rule if the web server says it is where the access control rule is.
The difference between ACP and WAC is that ACP allows you to put the rules in a different document from the access control.

Justin: I think that ACP to WAC comparison even with questions as to how you map resources to statements, it doesn't seem like it's apples to apples to not include resources. You need both to look at the difference. Probably we could help answer some of those questions through this exercise. If you divide it up in one way it might be problematic.

Henry: The main advantage of ACP is that you can put rules in different documents.

### PR215

Pavlik: I would find it helpful to see which statements are made in which resource. As well as how we manage access to all the resources including policies and rules.


## Actions

* Matthieu to show how statements are divided amongst resources
