meetings/2021-02-08.md, before:

# Use Cases and Requirements Session
February 8th, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Henry S
- Dmitri Z
- Eric P

## Agenda

- Discuss Create / Delete - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/166
- Latest UCR Updates / Reviews - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/152

## Minutes



### Create/Delete PR 166

Justin B: The PR clarifies delete and creation use cases which previously were difficult to follow because they confused append of data on a container with adding a new resource to a container. 


HS: I went through the PR and I agree that it is an improvement. The previous language was too close to the implementation layer of HTTP requiring the reader to know a lot more than is needed, and also perhaps closing opportunities for improvement to the access control layer. 

HS: I added some minor typo/grammar commits to it.
   Also I wanted to update the UC-Survey to fix the pointer references that were changed. So I did a git rebase on master as follows:
   
```bash
gh pr checkout 152
git rebase master
git push --force-with-lease
```

So you may need to pull the new version if you are working with a version on your file system. 

HS: I was going to see if the changes would affect my responses to the UC Survey, and then add a +1 to the PR.


### UCR Requirements PR 152

Action items:

HS: Update requirement setup to "The system shall allow [e.g. access to be limited to the access control rule]"

EP: The system shall provide an \<a id="#ACLinterface">interface to access control lists\</a>.

EP: Consider a DFN link for "<a href='#limit'>limit<a>", e.g.

> Saying the system limits access to X, indicates that there is a mechanism by which a user or controller may set access permissions and the system will enforce them when agents \<a href="#ACLinterface">interact with ACLs\</a>.

Discussion on tension of privacy requirements for the client and server led Henry to point to this image


[![Toilets with transparent plexiglas deployed in Belgian Restaurant Belga Queen](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Eto26NNXAAMQmEh?format=jpg&name=medium)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Q2L3RuSnBs&feature=emb_logo)
"*In order to improve our user experience we have opened up our authorization policies*"

What at first sight seems incredible, namely this bathroom with transparent plexiglass in the [Belgian Restaurant Belga Queent](http://www.belgaqueen.be/brussels.aspx#intro) has a technical explanation, shown by the YouTube video you get to by clicking on the image. Moral: we can solve this incongruity with some clever technology if we set our minds to it.

DZ: Can we timebox argument on determination of client privileges

HS: Agree we don't need to specify *how* this needs to work. But we do need to add a requirement on the information needeing to be made available to the client so that it can select an ID or credential needed to authenticate. 

JB: "The system shall ensure that there are practical and efficient mechanisms available for the client to determine an appropriate credential to present for access to a given resource." - DZ +1, HS +1

DZ: Look at in-browser CHAPI scenario for real world example. Existing solution that separates authorization layer from credential layer

HS: yes TLS Client certificate authentication also allows the server to specify the id of certificate authorities it accepts.
The problem with TLS Client Certificates is that they cover a whole connection (not per resource) and are difficult to undo: once selected the browser automatically selects it (unless told otherwise in a difficult to find setting). Furthermore as CSarven pointed out last Wednesday's meeting and in [his comment on the issue 123 "keep track of effiency"](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/123#issuecomment-768606815) a client that jumps across many servers can overwhelm the user with Certificate Requests leading to a terrible user-experience. With Verifiable Claims and client side policies we can do a lot better. 

JB: Per comment on intro text about resource controller implicit requirements - consider switching "give" in use cases to "grant" / "authorize" and link to the explanation instead of the setup at the top

HS: Limit Information disclosure through URI - Look at suggested requirement (which essentially says no semantics from the URI name)

HS: Conditional access by payment - add some req for client to know the credential to present

HS: Limitations of legacy web access control - consider switching this to requirements, or fill missing use cases.

HS: Extended network - Add conditional relationship to illustrate the dynamic (Linked-Data) nature of use case

EP: Change "specific" to "given" on conditional relationship

Commit message:

filled in the CHAPI Google docs conversation

meetings/2021-02-08.md, after:

# Use Cases and Requirements Session
February 8th, 2021

## Present

- Justin B
- Henry S
- Dmitri Z
- Eric P

## Agenda

- Discuss Create / Delete - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/166
- Latest UCR Updates / Reviews - https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/152

## Minutes



### Create/Delete PR 166

Justin B: The PR clarifies delete and creation use cases which previously were difficult to follow because they confused append of data on a container with adding a new resource to a container. 


HS: I went through the PR and I agree that it is an improvement. The previous language was too close to the implementation layer of HTTP requiring the reader to know a lot more than is needed, and also perhaps closing opportunities for improvement to the access control layer. 

HS: I added some minor typo/grammar commits to it.
   Also I wanted to update the UC-Survey to fix the pointer references that were changed. So I did a git rebase on master as follows:
   
```bash
gh pr checkout 152
git rebase master
git push --force-with-lease
```

So you may need to pull the new version if you are working with a version on your file system. 

HS: I was going to see if the changes would affect my responses to the UC Survey, and then add a +1 to the PR.


### UCR Requirements PR 152

Action items:

HS: Update requirement setup to "The system shall allow [e.g. access to be limited to the access control rule]"

EP: The system shall provide an \<a id="#ACLinterface">interface to access control lists\</a>.

EP: Consider a DFN link for "<a href='#limit'>limit<a>", e.g.

> Saying the system limits access to X, indicates that there is a mechanism by which a user or controller may set access permissions and the system will enforce them when agents \<a href="#ACLinterface">interact with ACLs\</a>.

Discussion on tension of privacy requirements for the client and server led Henry to point to this image


[![Toilets with transparent plexiglas deployed in Belgian Restaurant Belga Queen](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/Eto26NNXAAMQmEh?format=jpg&name=medium)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Q2L3RuSnBs&feature=emb_logo)
"*In order to improve our user experience we have opened up our authorization policies*"

What at first sight seems incredible, namely this bathroom with transparent plexiglass in the [Belgian Restaurant Belga Queent](http://www.belgaqueen.be/brussels.aspx#intro) has a technical explanation, shown by the YouTube video you get to by clicking on the image. Moral: we can solve this incongruity with some clever technology if we set our minds to it.

DZ: Can we timebox argument on determination of client privileges

HS: Agree we don't need to specify *how* this needs to work. But we do need to add a requirement on the information needeing to be made available to the client so that it can select an ID or credential needed to authenticate. 

JB: "The system shall ensure that there are practical and efficient mechanisms available for the client to determine an appropriate credential to present for access to a given resource." - DZ +1, HS +1

DZ: Look at in-browser [CHAPI scenario](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qPbwx9IXwPlgsZgS2XPXeGgstxrixnC8n0E2I4cxVc8/edit#slide=id.g846742fe3e_1_188) for real world example. Existing solution that separates authorization layer from credential layer. 
Another case is an invitation by Google Docs. When you add someone to the Google Docs folder it sends them an invite URL. The user then
clicks on that URL and is brought to a page in human readable text which allows them to authenticate.

HS: Yes so in the Google Docs scenario (I don't know CHAPI) the information about the membership is given via
the e-mail communication channel. That fits the requirement of a way for the server to tell the client that it is in. 
We can map this to Solid: The server (Google in this case) needs to remember who is part of which group, which means
it has an ACL somewhere stating that. We could add members to a protected group readable only
by members of the group. This would require the server to send a RESTful notification to some inbox container to let the user know 
of its newly acquired membership. 

HS: note that TLS Client certificate authentication also allows the server to specify the id of certificate authorities it accepts which
is too general to be useful to us.
But the main problem with TLS Client Certificates is that they cover a whole connection (not per resource) and are difficult to undo: once selected the browser automatically selects it (unless told otherwise in a difficult to find setting). 
Furthermore as CSarven pointed out last Wednesday's meeting and in [his comment on the issue 123 "keep track of effiency"](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/123#issuecomment-768606815) a client that jumps across many servers can overwhelm the user with Certificate Requests leading to a terrible user-experience. With Verifiable Claims and client side policies we can do a lot better. Efficiency and user friendliness are very
important for our use cases.

JB: Per comment on intro text about resource controller implicit requirements - consider switching "give" in use cases to "grant" / "authorize" and link to the explanation instead of the setup at the top

HS: Limit Information disclosure through URI - Look at suggested requirement (which essentially says no semantics from the URI name)

HS: Conditional access by payment - add some req for client to know the credential to present

HS: Limitations of legacy web access control - consider switching this to requirements, or fill missing use cases.

HS: Extended network - Add conditional relationship to illustrate the dynamic (Linked-Data) nature of use case

EP: Change "specific" to "given" on conditional relationship
