# W3C Solid Community Group: Authorization Panel
* Date: 2021-09-29T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Tim Berners-Lee](https://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/card#i)
* [Beatriz Esteves](https://besteves4.github.io/)
* [Matthieu Bosquet](https://github.com/matthieubosquet/)
* Nick Mondada
* [Pat McBennett](https://pmcb55.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* [Samu Lang](https://www.linkedin.com/in/langsamu)
* elf Pavlik
* Justin Bingham
* Henry Story
* Eric P
* Davi

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Matthieu Bosquet
* Sarven


### Introductions
* Pat McBennet: Technical architect @inrupt guest interested in ODRL
* Samu: Developer @inrupt enterprise server team, interested in ODRL
* Beatriz: PhD student at university politech Madrid, presents her work on ODRL
* Nick M: Product manager @inrupt interested in consent

---

## Topics

### Draft specification proposal for ACP
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/183

See also: https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/solid/authorization-panel/main/proposals/acp-specification/index.html#agent-matcher

* SC: Anything outstanding? Consideration for merge. Any objections/feedback?
* Matthieu: +1 merge
* Elf: +1 merge
* Justin: +1 merge
* Henry: +1 merge
* Sarven: Is Matthieu continuing as Editor?

PROPOSAL: Matthieu to continue as Editor.

RESOLUTION: Matthieu as Editor of ACP work item.


### giving rights to the creator of a resource 
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/261
* Henry: Trying to discuss about the modes, a proposed use case would be: "people can only delete comments they've posted on a blog".
* ...: For this type of thing, you'd need n3 rules. It doesn't need to be implemented straight away.
* ...: For people deciding to edit their comments, you would need some form of reasoning.
* Tim: I think Ruben and I for example were thinking about the architecture of Solid in the future, the emphasis would be on data and relationships and simple shapes.
* ... We'd get a point where having gentle very simple inference. For example RDFS would solve a lot of ontology mismatch problems.
*...The moment you start looking at sorting emails and things like that (such as photographs albums), creating rules and having a rule engine inside Solid in the future would be very handy.
*... There is an argument to say deriving the class of entity interacting with content in order to enforce access control would be very handy (parent of x...).
* Henry: how can i present something logicallyt that fits with the sw. the n3 rule gives me an idea where it ends up in 10 years time.. then we are thinking about ti straight.. and finding little ways.. hacking it or finding the sweet spots where we don't need reasoning.
*...I'll paste the rule in the Scribe doc:

```
{ ?i a foaf:Agent } => {
   [] a :Authorization;
     :accessToClass [ 
        a owl:Restriction;
        owl:onProperty iana:author
        owl:hasValue ?i ];
     :mode :Write;
     :agent ?i
}
```


### ODRL in Solid
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/55
* SC: Beatriz Esteves to present ODRL Profile for Access Control in Solid https://w3id.org/oac/
* Beatriz: Hi everyone. I'm a PhD student funded by the Protect project.
* ...: My PhD research will be around developing machine readable policies in the context of SOlid. It is motivated by GDPR in Europe (article 14 & 15), a lot of info about hte user (identity/purpose...) will need to be available.
* ...: How to store info in a manner compliant with GDPR?
* ...: What we already started is building an ODRL projfile which extends the Solid mechanism to express access control using the Data Privacy Vocabulary. The profile is at w3id.org/oac/ 
* ...: For this profile we had prerequisites in mind:
    - policies should support expressing preferences and data access requests
    - specify different levels of granularity in policies for specific container/resources or broader for specific types of personal data
* ..: There is an example of policy expressed using the odrl profile in the slide as well as a link to the simple consent demo we built.
* Pavlik: How to enforce those policies? Currently, the resource server would enforce. With those policies, it sounds like legal enforcement rather than software?
* Beatriz: It's something we're still debating. To start we could define constraints with SHACL shapes for example to constrain what type of policy a user can define also if you define something for a container, you can use the ACL file but if you wanna be broader, you'd need a standard way to understand which data is of a certain type.
* Pavlik: We have work under way to classify types of data in interop pannel. But how could that purpose be enforced on the server level?
* Beatriz: perhaps academic research is not the best example. solid apps will have these policies in the dev of their apps.. when user authorizes.
* Henry: I thought about this because Oshani Seneviratne at MIT was working on something similar. THere id a level of access control in there because the server can look at the WebId of the app and see if it understands the vocabulary. If it doesn't, the client is deaf. If the client understands, then you're legally bound.
* ...: now, what does it mean to be legally bound? If it's the client who wants to legally bind the server to not disclose the data, then you might be interested to know in which country the server is for example.
* ...: Which legel system is the server bound to? If it's an island in the middle of the Pacific, you don't need to abide by any law.
* Tim: Back to the original question. How do you enforce. Simply, phylosifically, you never can. If I give you data, it won't turn bad if you try using it for the wrong purpose. But large companies can be prosecuted if they make unlawful use of data.
* ...: Say you use some data for a diagnostic. A hospital's information system  could easily enforce agreed purpose. In order for my medical data to be used for research, it should be agreed upon specifically.
* SC: Oshani's: http://dig.csail.mit.edu/2010/Papers/IAB-privacy/httpa.pdf
* Justin: Really interesting work. Something Pavlik mentionned: if you wanna apply somethin to a particular resource, fine, but in reality, you have data spread accross multiple resources and containers and whatever does authz needs to understand that. It is implicitly understood that applications need to understand and agree on what they're working with. You can use the same approach for validation as when you try to determine the type of data.
* ...: There is a solution in Shape trees that could be applied to both enforcing access control and get a machine to machine understanding of types of data to enforce purpose.
* Davi: Someone who crosses the Pacific will  need to abide if you're sailing under a US flag. Open waters doesn't mean lawless. There are complicated rules about open water lawful enforcement involving cross countries/international agreements.
* Henry: The [web of nations](https://medium.com/@bblfish/use-cases-for-the-web-of-nations-361c24d5eaee) tries to deal with that problem by allowing visible diplomatic relations and treaties on the web.
* ...: There is something similar to what you're doing. We're thinking of allowing access control to get apps ... say you have a banking app, then you should restrain where and what it can write. It might fit in your work.
* Beatriz: For the GDPR doesn't talk about access modes but more about hte processing that is done on the data. We should map those operations to GDPR and some terms are not translatable. How to map WAC to sharing the data with a differnet recipient. The issue is not esily addressed. We need to map operations to access control classes.
* Pavlik: Somethimes we conflate the client and the end user (social agent/legal person), we don't expect the software to have legal binding, we expect the legal agent to provide or request consent. Teh end user of a client application is commiting to respect a policy, not the software itself, is that correct?
* Beatriz: Yes
* Tim: When I give the NHS acess to data? I was impressed because they ask what type of organisation is involved? Typically, applications and software are terrible at capturing the intent of granted operations. In SOlid, the access can be linked and bound to standard intent. It would be very valuable for us to actually talk about differnet uses of purpose in access managemnt. In fact we already have some useful use cases. 
* Pavlik: I thought it's really great to have a strong foundationfor policies that would not be enforced at the software level, but rather legally binding. A person who has access can delegate it because they can for example setup a proxy; this kind of control restriction does fit better to those use cases because as soon as someone can read information, there is an opportunity for them to share that info. When you want to enforce more than read and go into restraining sharing, you want to go into purpose which is more of a legal than a technical restriction. https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#uc-delegation-subset
* Beatriz: to be in compliance with GDPR, you need this.
* Tim: Yes, delegation is a good case to highlight the differnce between legal and technical restrictions.
* SC: Next steps/interest for ODRL-OAC-and-friends in Solid.. Should a pannel tackle this? Do people see this as worthwhile for Solid?
* Justin: Absolutely relevant and important. In interop we have a framework for expressing needs, consent and delegation. TBD is dropping in some sound legal structure into consent. We have a good foundation programmatically but having a legal hindsight on which to collaborate with Beatriz would be great. https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/specification/#consents
* Eric P: Tim do you remember some work happening on a EUrop commision grant where they were talking about watermarking the data to find out whether they violated intent of share.
* Tim: I don't have a specific recollection of how data watermarking might work.
* Eric: It might not be watermarking, I'll find out what this was.
* Sarven: I'd like to hear from Tim. How should we proceed on the ecosystem?
* Tim: we should make everything as modular as possible. If consent is a general concept materialized with an explicit grant or license. 
* ...: What functionality the user has.. if we actually use 'consent'.. then at the moment.. one of the things that 'd be useful is the workflows where you either request consent from you.. i can hit chat .. go to my profile.. and have a chat.. put me in your contacts.. we should think about workflows we go through.. i go to some factory.. and create some questionnaire..  or you question me about how I'm happy for you to use my data.. and we end up creating a ..consent. which is stored in a certain pod.. signed. we should / solid architecture.. we should have sdk for it.. consents and licenses.. it should be really modular.. I should make an app which uses those.. take us through if you're running a .. after school activity. you should be able to put together an app for parents to give consent to .. by using the building blocks.. we should use that just solid pods.. without necessarily using the standard the consent grant.. those are among.. they're not standard/solid.. solid can be more flexible/general.. the people use different ontologies and so on.


#### Discovery of an ODRL resource
URL: https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/12



### Topic

PROPOSAL: text
* name: +1,0,-1
* 

RESOLUTION: text

ACTION: text
