# W3C Solid Community Group: Authorization Panel

* Date: 2021-10-13T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/authorization-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* Eric P
* Barath
* Aaron Coburn
* Justin B
* Kjetil K
* [Henry Story](https://co-operating.systems/)
* Matthieu

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven

## Topics

### Previous week actions

* Matthieu to write down example of CreatorAgent. DONE. See: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/262#issuecomment-939881814
* Matthieu to talk to Ruben and Joachim to understand where on the roadmap this can go and try to fit. Also where to fit readying and releasing the existing TypeScript implementation. DONE: We're aiming to integrate ASAP when time/availability allows. Hopefully around December we will have something.
* Elf to write down approach where only storage owner writes to ACRs and delegation handles others, sharing their access.
* Elf to open a discussion on UMA. See how to coordinate the overlap between authn and authz.


* Matthieu to write inheritance for ACRs of members of a container in the [evaluations folder](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation). -> Moved to next week ACTIONS


### ENTER TOPIC HERE
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/269
* name: Process Point of Order in meeting 2021-09-29
  consists of 2 sub issues:
    1. Direct merging of minutes to `main` was not agreed to. Can we either
        a. reverting to previous agreed to practice
        b. improve that with 3 step process as per [discussion 268](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/268) and as was discussed [last week](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-10-06.md).

    2. the ACP merge discussion that did not happen on 2021-09-29
      * what is the status of ACP?
      * What is the process for making changes to ACP?
      * How does that integrate with WAC?
      * How do we come to a consensus?
      * Would it not be better to have an ACP repo where people can make their unilateral decisions? (otherwise)
      
   3. Two issues to make a point on ACP and WAC:
     + Scalability of ACP https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/206
     + 2n+1 WAC https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/99   

### Initial UMA discussion (10min)

[Discussion#271](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/271)


---

### Matthieu to write inheritance for ACRs of members of a container in the [evaluations folder](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/tree/main/proposals/evaluation).

* **Elf**: will talk about his issues in the UMA section
* **Matthieu**: Answered CreatorAgent 
* **Matthieu**: I didn't have time for inheritance.. will take it up next week.
* **Matthieu** : ACP implementation in CSS. just finding time to set aside. hope to find time before end of year. doubt it will be before December. will try to before that.
* **eP**: 

### Creator agent
https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/262
* **elf**: not seeing issue on 262. noting that it could be fairly confusing same predicate used in two different ways. so perhaps we can use a different predicate? 

* **Matthieu**: The type of agent is to match against any agent, to match agent class. It is to match based on WebID. The idea is that each type of matcher can potentially be combined with other restrictions. To allow owner agent. also to identify specific issuer. specific agent with combined with *something*. so it is the same type of restriction as WebID. We could try something else, but not sure if another predicate is required.

* **Henry**: thanks for that answer. I will look at it next week. I had a lot of work to do (coding and other) so didn't have time to look at your answer, which, if I remember, you put in on Monday.

### ACP merge
* **Elf** Pavlik: timebox for 10 minutes. Henry, you've proposed *something;* would you like to explain what's missing, or what actions we can take from this discussion?
* **Henry**: Can we change the order, to the ones that I presented above?
* **Elf** Pavlik: one is process related, one is delivery related. would like to prioritise.
* **Henry**: Yes, but the ACP issue is related to the problem with `main`. But if we have to change the order... 
* ... The reason I'm bringing up the PR on ACP that was committed in the meeting when Tim was present, was because the process was broken during that 2021-10-12 meeting. For the past year the first thing we did is start by pushing the PR for the minutes of the last meeting. That day we started with the ACP PR. As a result I voted for an commit thinking wronglyh it was the last weeks minutes. 
* Now, if we don't follow the process, we won't come to a real consensus. Then issues can be re-opened and reverted, and we don't make any progress. (I don't know if you noticed but DIDs just didn't go through the W3C.  One can end up working for 3 years and then something stall at another level, and suddenly someone says it is not going through) 
... So we need to understand how we integrate ACP with WAC; then we are not doing anything right. we need to have a process and the process has been broken. and the reason for the process being broken. and the minutes have been pushed in.
* **elf Pavlik**: I understand that the merging of the minutes to `main` was a mistake. I was completely clear, though, that we were merging the PR. I don't want to talk about other people, but that's definitely not my case. If you were confused about what you were voting on... but...
* **Justin Bingham**: I think we need to avoid conflating a few things together. Not that it is intentional. How we deal with meeting minutes, how we deal with drafts... Frankly, i don't see the relevance of Tim being there or not. As for ACP, we have reviewed that PR over several months, asked if we could get that on the agenda, and merged and continue to iterate... and there were several minutes of discussion on this. It feels odd that you weren't aware of PR. There were a couple of +1s. Two minutes later, the ACP draft was mentioned to be published at this URL. It seemed pretty obvious what we were talking about. There was good feelings together, but I don't think it is constructive to lump these things together. I will just point out that this is in proposal folder. ACP as a proposal spec. 
* what that vote didn't say was the next thing that it is getting from the spec tomorrow. 
* all that said was that this was a good draft spec. it is hard to disagree with that.. but maybe people want to.
* **Aaron C**: Justin just said most of what i wanted to say. This is just a draft proposal. I don't attend meetings but follow the minutes. From the outside, it seemed like the ACP is a proposal. As a proposal, it is a lower bar; as for how far it can move forward, it was completely clear to me it was going to get merged as a proposal.
* **Henry Story**: It wasn't clear to me because the order of the meeting was changed. The meetings typically starts with committing the minutes, but instead the PR was pushed. So the order was different from the usual business process. And the previous meeting minutes were then pushed 30 minutes after the call. The minutes from the previous call were pushed to the main. Something that didn't happen before. And for last week (going to the other issue): I and everyone understands that ACP is a proposal. 
* 
* In the next part... we'll discuss how we can perhaps try to come to a consensus. I don't think there is an action to be had on the ACP.

### Direct merging of minutes to `main`
* **elf Pavlik** let's timebox to 5 minutes as a process point. we can develop the conversation on github.
* **Henry**: we used to have a practice here. It is a simple one: we have a meeting, we make a PR of the notes, that PR gets improved. Next week we vote and approve. Last week we discussed this. I explained the problem @csarven had found with URLs to the minutes not being long-lasting. 
* My proposal was to fix that by having a draft-minutes branch for all future meeting PRs - not to have a deleted branch but to have a long lasting branch: that solves the problem that Sarven brought up. Can we vote on reverting to previous process or another having a draft minutes and committing to that? As I've explained in [discussion 268](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/271).

* **Henry**'s proposal:
>Push minutes to the draft-minutes branch of relevant repository immediately after the call.
>Improvements to the minutes MUST be PRs (can be done by editing the content on github)
>After approval of minutes in next neeting, press github "Merge Pull Request" button.

* HS: +1
* eP: 0

* AC: If we require a specific branch name.. then the only people can scribe are the ones that have access to the repo/branch.

* HS: good issue. people could create a PR against that branch.

* **Eric**: better to discuss in the issue. For today. is there a counter

* **Sarven**: There is a paralle PR 319 worth considering.
 
* **Henry**: +1 (to my proposal)

* **elf**: Aaron has counter proposal.

* **Aaron**: COUNTER PROPOSAL: use the process described at 
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/319

* **elf**: 0

* Is that the proposal to push to `main`?

* **Sarven**: no, the last proposal

* **Henry**: the whole proposal there is 50 pages long... so forgive me if it is unclear what is being referred to there.  So you mean the proposal you metnioned here:
https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/319#issuecomment-940959530

> Create a PR (in whatever branch it is most suitable) immediately after meeting.
Participants have 24 (or 48) hours to provide improvements.
Then after an assignee (scribe, moderator, CG chair...) merges. This could be automated.

* **Sarven**: yes

* **Elf**: I propose the scribe does it today as they see fit. Just for today's.


### Inefficiency of ACP and WAC

* https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/206
* 2n+1 https://github.com/solid/web-access-control-spec/issues/99

* **Henry**: So the point of talking about process is that we want to end up coming to a consensus. 
* That is why these two issues are particularly interesting.  It took me a while to understand issue 206 brought up by Kjetil but it ties in well with 2n+1 in WAC. Both of these are efficiency problems. A simple way to understand this is the following: 
   * In ACP every resource has an ACL. So this creates double the amount of resources needed in many cases. Instead of having one default access control rule that covers a whole subtres, one has one per resource. This is inefficient just in terms of the number of HTTP calls: it is too much and unnecessary. 
   * WAC has a problem trying to find the default rule. it has to go down and find the rule, directory by directory.  There is no magic way to overcome this for us; we are doing engineering here.  
* But these can come together. ACP does not need to require one ACR for every resource: it could go the way WAC does and have pointers to defaults. WAC could just have a link to the effective ACR. That is instead of having only one `Link: <foo.acl>; rel=acl` header, we could just have two. One pointing to the effective ACR, and one pointing to the potential one. This is a compromise solution where we can stitch the two protocols together and come to an agreement.

* **Matthieu**: It is unclear to me this is an efficiency problem. If we are talking about a cache. ACP has 1:1 resources/ACR and only the first level is not reusable. I don't see how to make the cache more efficient since ACP de facto reduces redundancies. I am not convinced that something can't be optimised ahead of time...

* **Aaron**: there are two kinds of interactions with acp/wac: there is update and read of access control rules. Both ACP and WAC make different optimisation decisions. 
  * What wac does is it makes writes to acl easy and quick. But read is more complicated as Henry pointed out. So WAC puts simplicity on writes and complexity on reads. 
  * ACP is the other way around: reads are very quick and writes are more complex. But since most uses of WAC are reading this makes sense to me.

* When someone is building a WAC system they'll find, (I have built several wac sytesms) the need to build caching systems anyway... on an engineering side.. these request happen so fast, you'll need to build a cache any way.

* **Henry**: Aaron described it well, but I believe we could do better on both sides, e.g., WAC can do better by allowing clients to find the active ACR, and ACP does not need to require so many ACRs, especially when they are all duplicating a default rule. For WAC, finding the active ACR requires just one additional link header, pointing to the active ACR. That would save `2n+1` requests (where `n` is the number of folders between a resource and the active one). Then ACP could adopt the default system of WAC, and not require every resource to have its ACR, thereby also reducing the number of requests.

* **KjetilK**: Agree with Aaron. WAC needs to be implemented with caching anyway. also I agree with your assessment on `2n+1`, but that has a relatively trivial solution to point at the effective resource. Trying to look at this more fundamental analysis angle, we want Solid to grow exponentially, and grow on very large servers too, creating a huge URI space. So we have a problem in that we need to limit that exponential time increase in some way. We need to take into account disk speed and Moore's law, and possibly bring it down to something that's not exponential. There are things like spinning disks which only have linear improvement. The problem is that ACP is efficient on read, but on write, it is terrible, because on every write, it has to propagate the change of rules to children; that goes with the need to block all accesses. I have to admit that I am not that clear on how propagation happens in ACP. I also acknowledge that I'm not particularly good at this.

* **Aaron**: a lot can be addressed through implementation detail. re: Henry's point on precomputed cache, there are all kinds of caches. Don't need to materialize all data in ACR cache; it can be lazy. It is not necessary to block on reads. Those implementation details are allowable within the spec.

* **Matthieu**: ACP makes everything reusable all the time no matter if working on hierarchy or not.

* **Henry**: the problem is not something that can be optimised with caches. This is a protocol problem. In WAC's case, it can be optimised by adding a new link. Indeed, in the issues, I found that Aaron had raised this issue -- to have a second link -- and had proposed one himself. We can have an efficient system, by just adding such a new access control link. In the case of ACP, we should also think of it as not set in stone, but as something that can evolve towards something more efficient. 
* My action can be to open an issue so that Aaron, Matthieu, myself, and Sarven can look into this.

* **Elf** (at quarter to) time is going by, we are eating into the next topic time.

* **Henry**: I would just like to point out that UMA is eating into our time here. We had a whole month of UMA introductions and topics in the summer, that often took up half of our panel meetings, and none of the issues or ACTIONS that were brought up there were followed up on.

* **KjetilK**: I'm not confident that the implementation detail will take care of this problem. It seems more of a fundamental problem with data representation and the complexity that arises from that. There are limits to in terms of optimisations. I understand that I'm not the right person, but worried that we are implementing something that can't scale if Solid goes exponential. I would like to be confident about that.

* **elf**: can we follow in issues? for acp and for wac

* **Aaron**: It is great to talk about this in theory but when we are talking about these details, it is important to hear from direct implementation experience.


### UMA
URL: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/271

* **SC**: {eP shares screen}

* **elf**: There is Authorization Server (AS) connected to Resource Server (RS). The end user will login w/ client to AS. The AS will talk to the client to make a request to the RS.... See URL for details.

* **Aaaron C**:: These flows get complicated as UCs are extended. Separating the AS from the RS makes the RS implementation much easier. Isolation and separation of code is really nice.

* **Jusin B**: Interop doesn't necessarily require.. all these infra is in place.. but these are patterns where protocols have solved them.. have flows where ??? for average users over complex data.
