# 2021-06-02 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization


## Agenda

* Minutes https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/218
* Cover some changes to [PR 216](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/216)
* [Discussion on the Web Credentials HTTP API mailing list relating to Authorization](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0005.html) coming up and [Henry's answer to that](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0006.html)
* Discuss [Issue 217](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/217): Permission for Access Policy Resources 


## Present

* Henry S
* Justin B
* Eric P
* Matthieu B
* Samu L
* e Pavlik


## Minutes

### WAC & ACP UC-3

Justin: Is the UC-3 on inheritance ready?

Henry: I added separation of resources for the WAC use case.

Matthieu: I gave it some thoughts but haven't had time to finalise it in writing.

Henry: I also ammended to match the use case with weekly use cases. We can ask Sarven to check the WAC example. Maybe take the layout and put it at the top so that all specs work with the same data structure.

Matthieu: That sounds good.

Henry: Perhaps use a name such as .ac instead of .acl 

Henry: Empty means this resource, dot means the directory in which the resource is. At the level of logic, you're not meant to look at the structure of URIs. But as far as you're doing requests, you should be able to use the "intuitive" file-system like URI structure.

### Discussion on the CCG mailing list

Henry: The Solid use cases have been described as too simple in [a CCG mailing list message](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jun/0005.html).
It would be fine if the CCG could use our use cases and perhaps go over them and improve them.

Justin: We have 2/3 use cases covering delegation.

Elf: It would be good to have more delegation cases. We don't look at the cases where Acme gives access to Alice and Alice to Bob. So more generally transitive access. We only have cases for clients. If someone such as Acme is owning the data, that's where the delegation chain starts. If there is a chain of delegation using ZCAPS, it should work.

Henry: Maybe you could suggest a couple. It's possible that it wouldn't match the CCG problem space, but it will help us understanding exactly what they are trying to solve. If the people that focus on delegation can formulate a delegation problem/use case, then we'll know whether it would be solvable in our space.

Justin: I'll follow up.

Henry: There's a couple of Use Cases in the CCG, it's the beginning of Use Case development. There is current controversy on using OAuth/GNAP (new) and so on... It is unclear why using OAuth in conjuction to verifiable credentials. Finding out would be good.

Justin: In the interop panel we have a consent flow. It follows the UMA pattern but didn't prescribe it in order not to complicate things. If we're closing on drafts for WAC and ACP, and in the Interop panel this space is the missing piece 'dealing with credentials, you have to work with something to know what to present'? We have similar needs and I'd like to know what this group is working on.
OAuth doesn't let you say: "I'm this user and I want to determine in a fine grained way what is the scope of data I have access to".

Henry: The wallet should have a system where the user can chose which credential to show. Which presentation.

Elf: There is a claims gathering part which can be interactive. Chose claims based on what is required.

Henry: We need to find out what is the problem space of UMA with more clarity. 

Henry: here is the [Use Case Document for the HTTP API call](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.cctvrmgl94xc) they are working on.

This was mentioned in the [meeting notes](https://www.w3.org/mid/60b0448d.1c69fb81.1fe37.ac29@mx.google.com)

### Access Policy Resources

Elf: Access Control Resources

Justin: Granularity is something I'm pretty interested in as well. Ultimately we need to do authorization beyond just the resource. We actually have a UC about this (conditional access by filter). If you targetted a subject node within a resource, you could do that, but it wouldn't solve all our problems either. In some UCs, what matters is not only filtering per subject but also per triple with a certain subject. What I don't want them to know is what an appointment is for and so on. What I'm exposed to or not related to a specific subject. Eric and I named that shape mask. Using shapes to give you that granularity. It covers all the fields that you might need in a medical appointment but also another shape could filter out the triples.

Eric: You could use a SPARQL query but that's.
You can effectively say that a PUT would be a PATCH?

Elf: This can only apply to the read access. But if you have a write, you cannot use PUT because you never know how much of the representation you're getting.

Justin: If you have the same thing on write and essentially using shape validation again, it should be doable. Not sure you'd be restricted only to read. Maybe it would be good to expand on the UCs.

Eric: Driver has an appointment, know the location and time, but not the appointment details.

Elf: Set a resource and apply shapes on it.

Justin: If you can apply filter on read you can also filter on write as long as you have server side shape validation. Essentially the authorization system would be manipulating what's coming through.

Henry: If you only see a whole resource, that's what you return. When you do a PUT, it doesn't say you have to know the whole resource, it says you have to get what you PUT back.

Eric: You can't 

Henry: If you get you replace all of your view on that data.

Eric: You're putting something `n1 p1` then you can't delete any node that has properties on it that you can't see.

Henry: ACL is still a good place to start for ease. But we need to catter for more complicated cases.


## Actions

* Matthieu ask Sarven if the example UC in WAC is correct.
* Justin to follow up on asking for a Use Case of delegation.
* Henry to get clarity on the problem space of UMA.
* Matthieu to express the resource separation in ACP: PR 215; PR 216; Issue 210; Issue 217.
