# 2021-05-19 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization


## Agenda

* Minutes https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/213
* Negation and access control for WAC and ACP
https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/discussions/212

### If time allows
* Inheritance with [Referenced Data Grants](https://solid.github.io/data-interoperability-panel/specification/#datamodel-referenced-data-grant) (interop panel)
  * UC [Conditional access by relationship](https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#conditional-relationship)
  * Can we 'search and replace' Report -> Project and Measurement -> Task ? This will align it with scenario used in interop spec, primer, and shape trees spec


## Present

* Matthieu B
* Justin B
* e Pavlik
* Henry S
* Eric P


## Minutes

### Issue 210

Elf: The evaluation table focuses on the requirements; could we add one on the use cases? Could we use one pull request per use case to demonstrate side-by-side how each proposal solves the use cases?

### Negation and access control for WAC and ACP

Justin: Without category theory (CT) background, it's a bit hard to fully grasp.

Henry: It takes time to understand but CT is interesting. It is good at bringing out dualities. Logic that only include existential statements (AND and TRUE) RDF basic.
- Existential quantification and truth
- Negation disjunction and universal quantification

When dealing with logic, the positive logic is a lot easier to deal with. You're only adding information to the database, not removing from it. In negation, you have a branching tree mode so that makes things more complicated. You need to search through all the options.

It is mostly interesting in Functional Programming, because you'd look for sets and relations. In the semantic web, you have arrows between arrows.

If I write a client or a guard on the server, and it finds a document saying a user is allowed to see a resource, it can stop. Now with negation, does it have to continue looking? What if it finds a positive and negative?

Matthieu:
   Being denied takes precedence over being allowed. 
   One can stop as soon as one finds a rule that is denied.
   The allOf gives the union so disjunction
   (bblfish: the union seems less problematic)

Elf: If some closed ecosystem has a policy that doesn't allow using negation for scalability, it is not going to be part of the open ecosystem.

Eric: It seems like most of the ACL systems I've seen make use of allow and deny. If you say I want everybody in the world except X to access Y, it's gonna be awkward. Figuring out firewall rules is tedious.

Henry: I'm not arguing soemone would restrict the language. If allowing everyone except X, it's easy to present yourself as anyone but X.

Elf: Some data is not discoverable, so if you would just change identity, you might not get there.

Eric: Even when you have rules of type allow all, you can still flatten them out to conjuctive/disjunctive normal forms. My effective process would be walk through the disjuncts and that allows to see at the end if you have permission. Even with a complex language you can still flatten it to something that has a nice linear performance.

Henry: You could have an ACL access control that links to a document that only gives you positive rules. And others that tells another document will include some negative.

Matthieu: I think one algorithm would implicitly be able to function in an optimal way without upfront notification of the presence of negative statements.

Henry: If you have linked documents to look through, you can get really long times for resolution.

Justin: I feel like on the other side, a server really can stop as soon as it knows something is not allowed. So the reciprocal stands. It doesn't seem that there is a lot of optimisation or concern on optimisation from the client. We wanna do better than a firewall that just blanks people out. If part of the requirement is that from scratch the client needs to understand everything it can do it's a different kind of system.

Henry: One could have both by having the access control resource specified. I'm ACP or WAC type access resource (I'm regular or geometric logic). And if you state your type of access control, then you have the convenience of knowing upfront the logic order which might be important to notify the user agent about.

Matthieu: It's just a convenient way of expressing certain conditions to add negation and intersection. Say you have access all the time except sunday the 27th from 4-6pm.

Henry: How do we make clear to a client or server guard that they don't have to go through everything?

Justin: We have a use case which essentially gives a useful negation use case (Felicia is part of a research group and has access to all the resources of the research group, but one particular resource she can't access because there is a conflict). The thing is if you said group X-minus-1, you have to maintain a new group. Now you have two groups to maintain to deal with only one condition. So if you think about other scenarios like this, that can dovetail pretty quickly into many sets being maintained and someone leaves an organisation but you missed a group where they were a member... This group has access to all RND resources but a couple of people can't and from a manageability point of view, it becomes just more impractical. That is where the value of negation really comes through.

Eric: Everybody in a group X except person Y is good because the person trying access as someone else is not gonna be part of group X.

Henry: It is a good negation use case.

Eric: Maybe some sort of tag could be used.

Henry: Something like a [Requirements section](https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#requirements) ;-)

### Inheritance with Referenced Data Grants

One level of depth vs several level of depth.

A shape path in its simplest form can say that node X to Y via Z. You can make in one shape path any level beyond that. You can imagine a system of indexes based on shape path if you had a reasoning that cared about those. You need to be able to do a single lookup.

The shape path gives you a machine readable way to define the construction of an index. If I have diagnosis, you get access to conditions How is the acl system know they have access to it, the shape path gives you a machines readable way to construct that index.

Property path in bioinformatics, people are encouraged to use generic properties that would show up all over the place. You could generate a property path that reimplemented your shape path, but not necessarily. If I have a observation that is generic and contains codes that have values and references for devices where they came from. We don't want people to have to have to dream up complex property paths (SPARQL) when they can use shapes.

With property path, you can't filter with restrictions (values of objects), you just have predicate chain.

In any validation case, you start with a fixed amount of node shapes and that's how you fix a particular node. 

Henry: What about starting a discussion on differences between SPARQL property paths, OWL Property paths, and ShEx shapes paths?

Matthieu: +1 that would be really useful to have a reference document on the high level differences between OWL/SPARQL/ShEx paths



## Actions

* Matthieu to take the basic write use case and express it in ACP https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#basic-write
* Matthieu to take one of the inheritance use cases to follow up on 210
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#inheritance-manage
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#inheritance-adding
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#inheritance-modifying
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/#inheritance-forcing
* Matthieu to follow-up on https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/210
