proposals/wac-acp-diff-story.md, before:

# ACP Compared to Web Access Control

This document is intended to reflect the following semi-authoritative (strongly suggestive) definitions:
- [W3C wiki](http://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl)
- [solid/specification](http://github.com/solid/specification)
- [sold/web-access-control](http://github.com/solid/solid-spec)
The goal is to ground conversations which compare WAC and ACP.
This is a work in progress.

Audience: those familiar with WAC or those who learn from comparisons

Access control is fundamentally about stating `who` can `do what` to `what resource`.
This matches very precisely the WAC ontology.

## ShEx for WAC:
Systems implementing Web Access Control (WAC) use a simple schema to make those assertions directly in RDF:

``` shex
PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>
PREFIX foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>

<AclShape> {
  # who
  (  acl:agentClass [foaf:Agent acl:AuthenticatedAgent]
    | acl:agentGroup @<GroupShape> OR IRI # likely in another resource
    | acl:agent IRI
    | acl:origin IRI
  )+ ;

  # can do what
  acl:mode [acl:Read acl:Write acl:Append acl:Control] + ;

  # to what resource
  (   acl:accessTo IRI
    | acl:accessToClass [foaf:Document] OR @<AclRegexShape> # TODO: remove Regexp, add auth user
  ) ;

  ^acl:trustedOrigin IRI ?
}

<GroupShape> { foaf:member IRI + }
<AclRegexShape> { acl:regex LITERAL }
```
([try it](http://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/doc/shex-simple?schema=PREFIX%20acl%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fauth%2Facl%23%3E%0APREFIX%20foaf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fxmlns.com%2Ffoaf%2F0.1%2F%3E%0A%0A%3CAclShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20%23%20who%0A%20%20(%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%40%3CGroupShape%3E%20OR%20%5Bfoaf%3AAgent%20acl%3AAuthenticatedAgent%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3Aagent%20IRI%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3Aorigin%20IRI%0A%20%20)%2B%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%23%20can%20do%20what%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20%5Bacl%3ARead%20acl%3AWrite%20acl%3AAppend%20acl%3AControl%5D%20%2B%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%23%20to%20what%0A%20%20(%20%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20IRI%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5Bfoaf%3ADocument%5D%20OR%20%40%3CAclRegexShape%3E%0A%20%20)%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%5Eacl%3AtrustedOrigin%20IRI%20%3F%0A%7D%0A%0A%3CGroupShape%3E%20%7B%20foaf%3Amember%20IRI%20%2B%20%7D%0A%0A%3CAclRegexShape%3E%20%7B%20acl%3Aregex%20LITERAL%20%7D%0A&data=PREFIX%20acl%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fauth%2Facl%23%3E%0APREFIX%20foaf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fxmlns.com%2Ffoaf%2F0.1%2F%3E%0A%0A%3Cacl1%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl2%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%2C%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Aagent%20%3Ccard%23i%3E.%0A%0A%3Cacl3%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%3Cfriends%23group%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl4%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%2C%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%3Cfamily%23group%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cfriends%23group%3E%20foaf%3Amember%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Falice%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Fbob%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Fcharlie%23me%3E%20.%20%0A%3Cfamily%23group%3E%20foaf%3Amember%20%20%3C..%2Fpeople%2Fdon%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fpeople%2Feloise%23me%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl5%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5B%20acl%3Aregex%20%22https%3A%2F%2Fjoe.solid.example%2F.*%22%20%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%20%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl6%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5B%20acl%3Aregex%20%22https%3A%2F%2Fbblfish.solid.example%2F.*%22%20%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Aorigin%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fapps.rww.io%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23i%3E%20acl%3AtrustedOrigin%20%3Cacl7%3E%2C%20%3Cacl8%3E%20.%0A%3Cacl7%3E%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20foaf%3ADocument%20%3B%20%20%23%3C-%20give%20access%20to%20all%20documents%20(%20that%20allow%20one%20access%20)%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20%3B%0A.%0A%3Cacl8%3E%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20foaf%3ADocument%20%3B%20%20%23%3C-%20give%20access%20to%20all%20documents%20(%20that%20allow%20access%20of%20course%20)%0A%20%20acl%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fapps.w3.org%2F%3E%2C%20%3C%3E%20%23but%20only%20to%20JS%20agents%20that%20come%20from%20these%20two%20origins%0A.%0A&manifestURL=http%3A%2F%2Fshex.io%2Fwebapps%2Fshex.js%2Fexamples%2Fmanifest.json&shape-map=%7B%20FOCUS%20acl%3Amode%20_%20%7D%40%3CAclShape%3E&interface=minimal&success=proof&regexpEngine=eval-threaded-nerr))

For example, if Jezebel decides to let Bartholomew copy her physics assignment, she could write:

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessTo </courses/8.04/assignment-1> .
```
In Solid, this access document would appear in the same Container as `assignment-1`.

In principle, WAC lets her grant access to all assignments under `/courses/8.04/` &mdash;
``` turtle
_:bart-copies-my-assignments
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessToClass [ acl:regex ".*/courses/8.04/assignment-.*" ] .
```
&mdash; but Solid doesn't implement that feature, instead applying access to everything in a Container, e.g. &mdash;
``` turtle
_:bart-reads-8.04
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessTo </courses/8.04/> .
```


## ShEx for ACP

ACP maintains separate metadata associating resources to access control statements.

``` shex
PREFIX acp: <http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#>
PREFIX rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>

# who
<RuleShape> {
  a [acp:Rule] ? ;
  acp:agent IRI ;
}

# can do what
<AccessPolicyShape> {
  a [acp:AccessPolicy] ? ;
  acp:allow [acp:Write acp:Read acp:Append] + ;
  acp:allOf @<RuleShape> ;
}

# to what -- AccessControl doc linked to ACL'd resource with:
#   Link: <https://alice.pod/resume?ext=acp>; rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#accessControl"
<AccessControlShape> {
  a [acp:AccessControl] ? ;
  (
      acp:apply @<AccessPolicyShape>
    |
      ( acp:applyConstant @<AccessPolicyShape> ;
        acp:applyMembersConstant @<AccessPolicyShape> ;
      )
  )
}
```
([try it](http://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/doc/shex-simple?schema=PREFIX%20acp%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fsolid%2Facp%23%3E%0APREFIX%20rdf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F1999%2F02%2F22-rdf-syntax-ns%23%3E%0A%0A%23%20Policies%0A%0A%3CAccessPolicyShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20a%20%5Bacp%3AAccessPolicy%5D%20%3F%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20%5Bacp%3AWrite%20acp%3ARead%5D%2B%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%40%3CRuleShape%3E%20%3B%0A%7D%0A%0A%3CRuleShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20a%20%5Bacp%3ARule%5D%20%3F%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20IRI%20%3B%0A%7D%0A&data=PREFIX%20acp%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fsolid%2Facp%23%3E%0APREFIX%20rdf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F1999%2F02%2F22-rdf-syntax-ns%23%3E%0A%0A%3C%23i%3E%0A%20%20acp%3Aaccess%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AaccessMembers%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20.%0A%3C%23myPodAccess%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessControl%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AapplyConstant%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AapplyMembersConstant%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20.%0A%3C%23resumeAssistance%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessControl%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aapply%20%3C%23personalTrusted%3E%20.%0A%0A%23%20Policies%0A%0A%3C%23personalTrusted%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessPolicy%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20acp%3AWrite%2C%20acp%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%3C%23editorFriends%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23podControl%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessPolicy%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20acp%3AWrite%2C%20acp%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%3C%23accessControllers%3E%20.%0A%0A%23%20Rules%0A%0A%3C%23editorFriends%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3ARule%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fbob.pod%2Fprofile%2Fcard%23me%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23accessControllers%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3ARule%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Falice.pod%2Fprofile%2Fcard%23me%3E%20.%0A&manifestURL=http%3A%2F%2Fshex.io%2Fwebapps%2Fshex.js%2Fexamples%2Fmanifest.json&shape-map=%7BFOCUS%20acp%3Aallow%20_%7D%40%3CAccessPolicyShape%3E&interface=human&success=proof&regexpEngine=eval-threaded-nerr))

As above, Jezebel can let Bartholomew copy her homework by editing the ACL document associated with `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>` by the `acp:accessControl` link header (e.g., `</courses/8.04/assignment-1?access>`):

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply [
    a acp:AccessPolicy ;
    acp:allow acp:Read ;
    acp:allOf [
      acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
    ]
  ] .
```

She could instead move that policy someplace independent from the existence of `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>`, e.g., `</myAccessPolicies>`, so it won't disappear if she deletes or renames `assignment-1`:
``` turtle
<#bart-copies-my-homework>
  a acp:AccessPolicy ;
  acp:allow acp:Read ;
  acp:allOf [
    acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
  ] .
```
Now she can apply it to multiple homework documents or all of her 8.04 documents with individual access controls like:
``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-2
  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply </myAccessPolicies#bart-copies-my-homework> .
```

## Minimal Extension to WAC enabling the same features

Another way of getting the same effect as ACP is to extend WAC with a `:authorizes`
relation defined as 

```Turtle
acl:accessTo owl:inverseOf [ 
        owl:propertyChainAxiom ( acl:accessControl :authorizes )
      ] .
```

(We leave the namespace for `:authorizes` open for the moment as it could be in the wac, acp, or another namespace).

This would allow one to place rules in different resources without needing to specify the `wac:accessTo` relation as in ACP. So for example the access control resource associated with Tim Berners-Lee's WebID Profile could contain 

```Turtle
<> :authorizes _:a1, <personal#Rule1> .
_:a1 a acl:Authorization;
     acl:agentClass foaf:Agent ;
    acl:mode acl:Read .
```

Note that the `acl:accessTo` relation is missing here. But it can easily be inferred. Any agent - be it a client or the server Guard - following the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from the original resource `<card>`, can then follow the `:authorizes` links and so deduce the following 2 statements (see the illustration below)

 1. for the bnode `_:a1`

```Turtle
_:a1 acl:accessTo <card> .
```

Here deduction means quite simply: to create a new graph with that relation added to it. Once that is done the same `AclShape` written up above holds.

 2. for the `<presonal#Rule1>` 

As above after dereferencing the `<personal#Rule1>` the same principle applies. 
If the document `<personal>` contains the following triples:

```Turtle
<#Rule1> acl:agent <card#i>;
    acl:mode acl:Read, acl:Write .
```

then the client having followed the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from `<card>` 
and followed the `:authorizes` link to `<personal>` would be able to deduce the triple

```Turtle
<#Rule1> acl:accessTo <card> .
```

and so that `AclShape` would still be valid.

The above layout is illustrated in the following diagram. Double lines represent `Link` relation headers, the solid lines represent relations explicitly written out, and the dotted lines represent inferred relations.

![Illustration of :authorizes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/124506/110973010-f70d3580-835c-11eb-85f0-d0fccc53dba0.jpg)

Commit message:

point out that we have two shapes.

proposals/wac-acp-diff-story.md, after:

# ACP Compared to Web Access Control

This document is intended to reflect the following semi-authoritative (strongly suggestive) definitions:
- [W3C wiki](http://www.w3.org/wiki/WebAccessControl)
- [solid/specification](http://github.com/solid/specification)
- [sold/web-access-control](http://github.com/solid/solid-spec)
The goal is to ground conversations which compare WAC and ACP.
This is a work in progress.

Audience: those familiar with WAC or those who learn from comparisons

Access control is fundamentally about stating `who` can `do what` to `what resource`.
This matches very precisely the WAC ontology.

## ShEx for WAC:

Systems implementing Web Access Control (WAC) use a simple schema to make those assertions directly in RDF:

``` shex
PREFIX acl: <http://www.w3.org/ns/auth/acl#>
PREFIX foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>

<AclShape> {
  # who
  (  acl:agentClass [foaf:Agent acl:AuthenticatedAgent]
    | acl:agentGroup @<GroupShape> OR IRI # likely in another resource
    | acl:agent IRI
    | acl:origin IRI
  )+ ;

  # can do what
  acl:mode [acl:Read acl:Write acl:Append acl:Control] + ;

  # to what resource
  (   acl:accessTo IRI
    | acl:accessToClass [foaf:Document] OR @<AclRegexShape> # TODO: remove Regexp, add auth user
  ) ;

  ^acl:trustedOrigin IRI ?
}

<GroupShape> { foaf:member IRI + }
<AclRegexShape> { acl:regex LITERAL }
```
([try it](http://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/doc/shex-simple?schema=PREFIX%20acl%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fauth%2Facl%23%3E%0APREFIX%20foaf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fxmlns.com%2Ffoaf%2F0.1%2F%3E%0A%0A%3CAclShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20%23%20who%0A%20%20(%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%40%3CGroupShape%3E%20OR%20%5Bfoaf%3AAgent%20acl%3AAuthenticatedAgent%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3Aagent%20IRI%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3Aorigin%20IRI%0A%20%20)%2B%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%23%20can%20do%20what%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20%5Bacl%3ARead%20acl%3AWrite%20acl%3AAppend%20acl%3AControl%5D%20%2B%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%23%20to%20what%0A%20%20(%20%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20IRI%0A%20%20%20%20%7C%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5Bfoaf%3ADocument%5D%20OR%20%40%3CAclRegexShape%3E%0A%20%20)%20%3B%0A%0A%20%20%5Eacl%3AtrustedOrigin%20IRI%20%3F%0A%7D%0A%0A%3CGroupShape%3E%20%7B%20foaf%3Amember%20IRI%20%2B%20%7D%0A%0A%3CAclRegexShape%3E%20%7B%20acl%3Aregex%20LITERAL%20%7D%0A&data=PREFIX%20acl%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fauth%2Facl%23%3E%0APREFIX%20foaf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fxmlns.com%2Ffoaf%2F0.1%2F%3E%0A%0A%3Cacl1%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl2%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%2C%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Aagent%20%3Ccard%23i%3E.%0A%0A%3Cacl3%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%3Cfriends%23group%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl4%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessTo%20%3Ccard%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%2C%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20%3Cfamily%23group%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cfriends%23group%3E%20foaf%3Amember%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Falice%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Fbob%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fuser%2Fcharlie%23me%3E%20.%20%0A%3Cfamily%23group%3E%20foaf%3Amember%20%20%3C..%2Fpeople%2Fdon%23me%3E%2C%20%3C..%2Fpeople%2Feloise%23me%3E%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl5%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5B%20acl%3Aregex%20%22https%3A%2F%2Fjoe.solid.example%2F.*%22%20%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%20%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20.%0A%0A%3Cacl6%3E%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20%5B%20acl%3Aregex%20%22https%3A%2F%2Fbblfish.solid.example%2F.*%22%20%5D%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3Aorigin%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fapps.rww.io%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23i%3E%20acl%3AtrustedOrigin%20%3Cacl7%3E%2C%20%3Cacl8%3E%20.%0A%3Cacl7%3E%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20foaf%3ADocument%20%3B%20%20%23%3C-%20give%20access%20to%20all%20documents%20(%20that%20allow%20one%20access%20)%0A%20%20acl%3AagentClass%20foaf%3AAgent%20%3B%0A.%0A%3Cacl8%3E%0A%20%20acl%3Amode%20acl%3AWrite%20%3B%0A%20%20acl%3AaccessToClass%20foaf%3ADocument%20%3B%20%20%23%3C-%20give%20access%20to%20all%20documents%20(%20that%20allow%20access%20of%20course%20)%0A%20%20acl%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fapps.w3.org%2F%3E%2C%20%3C%3E%20%23but%20only%20to%20JS%20agents%20that%20come%20from%20these%20two%20origins%0A.%0A&manifestURL=http%3A%2F%2Fshex.io%2Fwebapps%2Fshex.js%2Fexamples%2Fmanifest.json&shape-map=%7B%20FOCUS%20acl%3Amode%20_%20%7D%40%3CAclShape%3E&interface=minimal&success=proof&regexpEngine=eval-threaded-nerr))

For example, if Jezebel decides to let Bartholomew copy her physics assignment, she could write:

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessTo </courses/8.04/assignment-1> .
```
In Solid, this access document would appear in the same Container as `assignment-1`.

In principle, WAC lets her grant access to all assignments under `/courses/8.04/` &mdash;
``` turtle
_:bart-copies-my-assignments
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessToClass [ acl:regex ".*/courses/8.04/assignment-.*" ] .
```
&mdash; but Solid doesn't implement that feature, instead applying access to everything in a Container, e.g. &mdash;
``` turtle
_:bart-reads-8.04
  acl:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id> ;
  acl:mode acl:Read ;
  acl:accessTo </courses/8.04/> .
```


## ShEx for ACP

ACP maintains separate metadata associating resources to access control statements.

``` shex
PREFIX acp: <http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#>
PREFIX rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>

# who
<RuleShape> {
  a [acp:Rule] ? ;
  acp:agent IRI ;
}

# can do what
<AccessPolicyShape> {
  a [acp:AccessPolicy] ? ;
  acp:allow [acp:Write acp:Read acp:Append] + ;
  acp:allOf @<RuleShape> ;
}

# to what -- AccessControl doc linked to ACL'd resource with:
#   Link: <https://alice.pod/resume?ext=acp>; rel="http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#accessControl"
<AccessControlShape> {
  a [acp:AccessControl] ? ;
  (
      acp:apply @<AccessPolicyShape>
    |
      ( acp:applyConstant @<AccessPolicyShape> ;
        acp:applyMembersConstant @<AccessPolicyShape> ;
      )
  )
}
```
([try it](http://shex.io/webapps/shex.js/doc/shex-simple?schema=PREFIX%20acp%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fsolid%2Facp%23%3E%0APREFIX%20rdf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F1999%2F02%2F22-rdf-syntax-ns%23%3E%0A%0A%23%20Policies%0A%0A%3CAccessPolicyShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20a%20%5Bacp%3AAccessPolicy%5D%20%3F%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20%5Bacp%3AWrite%20acp%3ARead%5D%2B%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%40%3CRuleShape%3E%20%3B%0A%7D%0A%0A%3CRuleShape%3E%20%7B%0A%20%20a%20%5Bacp%3ARule%5D%20%3F%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20IRI%20%3B%0A%7D%0A&data=PREFIX%20acp%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2Fns%2Fsolid%2Facp%23%3E%0APREFIX%20rdf%3A%20%3Chttp%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F1999%2F02%2F22-rdf-syntax-ns%23%3E%0A%0A%3C%23i%3E%0A%20%20acp%3Aaccess%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AaccessMembers%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20.%0A%3C%23myPodAccess%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessControl%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AapplyConstant%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AapplyMembersConstant%20%3C%23podControl%3E%20.%0A%3C%23resumeAssistance%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessControl%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aapply%20%3C%23personalTrusted%3E%20.%0A%0A%23%20Policies%0A%0A%3C%23personalTrusted%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessPolicy%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20acp%3AWrite%2C%20acp%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%3C%23editorFriends%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23podControl%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3AAccessPolicy%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aallow%20acp%3AWrite%2C%20acp%3ARead%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3AallOf%20%3C%23accessControllers%3E%20.%0A%0A%23%20Rules%0A%0A%3C%23editorFriends%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3ARule%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Fbob.pod%2Fprofile%2Fcard%23me%3E%20.%0A%0A%3C%23accessControllers%3E%0A%20%20a%20acp%3ARule%20%3B%0A%20%20acp%3Aagent%20%3Chttps%3A%2F%2Falice.pod%2Fprofile%2Fcard%23me%3E%20.%0A&manifestURL=http%3A%2F%2Fshex.io%2Fwebapps%2Fshex.js%2Fexamples%2Fmanifest.json&shape-map=%7BFOCUS%20acp%3Aallow%20_%7D%40%3CAccessPolicyShape%3E&interface=human&success=proof&regexpEngine=eval-threaded-nerr))

As above, Jezebel can let Bartholomew copy her homework by editing the ACL document associated with `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>` by the `acp:accessControl` link header (e.g., `</courses/8.04/assignment-1?access>`):

``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-1
  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply [
    a acp:AccessPolicy ;
    acp:allow acp:Read ;
    acp:allOf [
      acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
    ]
  ] .
```

She could instead move that policy someplace independent from the existence of `</courses/8.04/assignment-1>`, e.g., `</myAccessPolicies>`, so it won't disappear if she deletes or renames `assignment-1`:
``` turtle
<#bart-copies-my-homework>
  a acp:AccessPolicy ;
  acp:allow acp:Read ;
  acp:allOf [
    acp:agent <http://solid.example/users/bart#id>
  ] .
```
Now she can apply it to multiple homework documents or all of her 8.04 documents with individual access controls like:
``` turtle
_:bart-copies-assignment-2
  a acl:AccessControl ;
  acp:apply </myAccessPolicies#bart-copies-my-homework> .
```

## Minimal Extension to WAC enabling the same features

Another way of getting the same effect as ACP is to extend WAC with a `:authorizes`
relation defined as 

```Turtle
acl:accessTo owl:inverseOf [ 
        owl:propertyChainAxiom ( acl:accessControl :authorizes )
      ] .
```

(We leave the namespace for `:authorizes` open for the moment as it could be in the wac, acp, or another namespace).

This would allow one to place rules in different resources without needing to specify the `wac:accessTo` relation as in ACP. So for example the access control resource associated with Tim Berners-Lee's WebID Profile could contain 

```Turtle
<> :authorizes _:a1, <personal#Rule1> .
_:a1 a acl:Authorization;
   acl:agentClass foaf:Agent ;
   acl:mode acl:Read .
```

Note that the `acl:accessTo` relation is missing here. But it can easily be inferred. Any agent - be it a client or the server Guard - following the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from the original resource `<card>`, can then follow the `:authorizes` links and so deduce the following 2 statements (see the illustration below)

 1. for the bnode `_:a1`

```Turtle
_:a1 acl:accessTo <card> .
```

Here deduction means quite simply: to create a new graph with the above triple added to it. Once that is done, the same `AclShape` written up above holds.

 2. for the `<presonal#Rule1>` 

As above after dereferencing the `<personal#Rule1>` the same principle applies. 
If the document `<personal>` contains the following triples:

```Turtle
<#Rule1> acl:agent <card#i>;
    acl:mode acl:Read, acl:Write .
```

then the client having followed the `Link: <card.acl>;rel=acl` header from `<card>` 
and followed the `:authorizes` link to `<personal>` would be able to deduce the triple

```Turtle
<#Rule1> acl:accessTo <card> .
```

and so that `AclShape` would still be valid.

There are then two AclShapes that are compabible.
 1. the AclShape now applied after "inferencing"
 2. the AclShape applied before inferencing [todo: write that out]

We thus get the same effect of allowing rules to be written and referred to, without those rules needing to specify in advance all the resources for which it is valid.

The above layout is illustrated in the following diagram. Double lines represent `Link` relation headers, the solid lines represent relations explicitly written out, and the dotted lines represent inferred relations.

![Illustration of :authorizes](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/124506/110973010-f70d3580-835c-11eb-85f0-d0fccc53dba0.jpg)
