proposals/evaluation/uc-0-effective-acr.md, before:

# Effective Access Control Resource Discovery Use Cases

This is part 0 of the [implementation specific use cases comparison](./use-cases.md).

The "effective access control resource" (ACR) of a resource R, is the resource that contains the rules that will be used by the server to determine access to R.


## 1. Discovering a resource's effective access control

A Solid client that wants to decide which credentials to present to access a resource or determine if it can edit the ACR, needs to discover the effective ACR of the resource in question.

### Setup

We have the following hierarchy of resources:

```turtle  
</default.acr>
</foo/bar/baz/x>
</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>
```

### Universal effective ACR discovery

Both WAC and ACP follow an `acl` link header in the response to a resource `R`, in order to find the Access Control Rules. 
(The name "acl" for the type of such a link [is being discussed](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/228).) 


We can start both our examples with the client making a `GET` request on `/foo/bar/baz/x` which returns either of the following responses:

  A. The response is successful, but the client then wants to edit the access control rules:
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: <.>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
Content-Length: 2042
Content-Type: ...

...
```
  B. The response is unsuccessful, and the client wants to find out how to authenticate to gain access:
```HTTP
401 Unauthorized
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: <.>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```

The second `Link`, with relation type `ldp:contains`, helps WAC clients determine the effective ACL.

### ACP

In ACP, every resource has exactly one effective access control resource directly associated with it, and every access control resource directly governs access over itself and exactly one other resource.

In ACP, access control statements can be spread over several resources; that is, an access control resource can reference other resources.

In ACP, the access control system in place (that is, ACP, as opposed to WAC, for example) is indicated via a `Link` header of `rel="type"` `<http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#AccessControlResource>` in HTTP response to a request for an ACR.

On receiving the `404` with the `Link` header given in our example, the client can make a request on `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>`, if it wants to look at the Access Control Rules. 
Since all resources in ACP have an associated ACR, the resource `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` should return a description of the sets of agents that can have access to the resource. 
This may include links to rules published elsewhere.

### WAC

In WAC, the effective ACR of a resource might be the ACR of a parent container of the resource.

In WAC, ACRs are called ACLs (Access Control Lists).

WAC's [Effective ACL Resource](https://solid.github.io/web-access-control-spec/#effective-acl-resource) discovery is described in [the WAC spec](https://solid.github.io/web-access-control-spec/) as follows:

> ##### Effective ACL Resource Algorithm
> To determine the effective ACL resource of a resource, perform the following steps. Returns string (the URI of an ACL Resource).
>
> 1. Let resource be the resource.
> 2. Let aclResource be the ACL resource of resource.
> 3. If resource has an associated aclResource with a representation, return aclResource.
> 4. Otherwise, repeat the steps using the container resource of resource.

Just as with ACP, the client can follow the `Link: <...acr>; rel="acl"` relation to find out the rules of access. 
But then we have two cases with WAC:

1. the ACR exists and returns the rules 
2. the ACR returns a `404 Not Found`

In (1), everything follows like with ACP above.
In (2), the client then needs to start the recursive process of looking for the effective ACR. 
We will detail (2) next.

1. First the client is lucky enough to be shown the reverse `ldp:contains` relation, so it can do a HEAD on that to find its `ACL`.
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/bar/baz/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/baz/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/bar/>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/bar/baz/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

2. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/bar/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/bar/baz/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

3. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

4. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD / HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —

```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </.acr>; rel="acl"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will finally return the content.

### WAC+

The WAC effective resource discovery algorithm, needed when default ACLs exist, is, as shown above, an expensive process for the client to follow, requiring a large number of failed requests.
We have three ways to fix this:
 * WAC+Trig — allows the server to return datasets, and so return the result in one request
 * WAC+:imports — shows how one can, as with ACP, have every resource come with its own ACR, but still allow defaults to work
 * WAC+rel=control — allows the server to publish two `Link` relations: one to the ACR, and the other to the effective ACR.

#### WAC+NTrig

A resource can let a client know that it supports dataset serialisation of its ACR by returning the following header with either a `200` or `401` HTTP result code as proposed in [issue 247](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/247):

```HTTP
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"; type="application/trig"
```
                                                         
A client could then follow up with a request to `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` with `Accept: application/trig` header. The server could respond with, for example:

```HTTP
200 Ok
Content-Type: application/trig
Content-Length: ...

GRAPH <> {}
GRAPH </.default.acr> {
 <#authorization> a acl:Authorization ;
   acl:agentGroup </owner#me> ;
   acl:default </> ;
   acl:mode acl:Control .
}
```

This should be read as 
 * specifying that no triples exist in`</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` 
 * giving the triples in the `</.default.acr>` graph

With a slight adjustment to the WAC spec, this could still count as there being nothing other than the default, which would therefore still be active as default for the given resource.

#### WAC+:imports

Another way to allow default reasoning is to use `:imports` as proposed in [issue 210: add :imports relation](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/210). 

[Reactive Solid](https://github.com/co-operating-systems/Reactive-SoLiD) has every resource come with an ACR with content. But the server has ACRs for newly created resources explictly `:import` the parent, so that `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` returns —

```Turtle
<> :imports <.acr> .
```
— and `</foo/bar/baz/.acr>` returns —

```
<> :imports <../.acr> .
```

And so on, up to the root `</.acr>`.

Clients with control access to a resource can change the ACR to point straight to the root ACR.

#### WAC + TriG + :imports

Both of those answers can be combined of course.
This was proposed in the May 11th comment to [issue 210: add :imports relation](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/210#issuecomment-838747077).
                                      
#### WAC + acl=control

This is perhaps the simplest solution. By specifying another link relation type to non-created ACR resource, we can help the client find its way very quickly to the effective resource, without losing the ability to edit the most specific one. 
This is explained in [issue 248](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/248).  
               
```HTTP
Link: </.default.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="control"
```
 

## See also

- [Access Control Resource discovery](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/228)

Commit message:

Formula for nbr of req to find WAC effective ACR

proposals/evaluation/uc-0-effective-acr.md, after:

# Effective Access Control Resource Discovery Use Cases

This is part 0 of the [implementation specific use cases comparison](./use-cases.md).

The "effective access control resource" (ACR) of a resource R, is the resource that contains the rules that will be used by the server to determine access to R.


## 1. Discovering a resource's effective access control

A Solid client that wants to decide which credentials to present to access a resource or determine if it can edit the ACR, needs to discover the effective ACR of the resource in question.

### Setup

We have the following hierarchy of resources:

```turtle  
</default.acr>
</foo/bar/baz/x>
</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>
```

### Universal effective ACR discovery

Both WAC and ACP follow an `acl` link header in the response to a resource `R`, in order to find the Access Control Rules. 
(The name "acl" for the type of such a link [is being discussed](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/228).) 


We can start both our examples with the client making a `GET` request on `/foo/bar/baz/x` which returns either of the following responses:

  A. The response is successful, but the client then wants to edit the access control rules:
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: <.>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
Content-Length: 2042
Content-Type: ...

...
```
  B. The response is unsuccessful, and the client wants to find out how to authenticate to gain access:
```HTTP
401 Unauthorized
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: <.>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```

The second `Link`, with relation type `ldp:contains`, helps WAC clients determine the effective ACL.

### ACP

In ACP, every resource has exactly one effective access control resource directly associated with it, and every access control resource directly governs access over itself and exactly one other resource.

In ACP, access control statements can be spread over several resources; that is, an access control resource can reference other resources.

In ACP, the access control system in place (that is, ACP, as opposed to WAC, for example) is indicated via a `Link` header of `rel="type"` `<http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/acp#AccessControlResource>` in HTTP response to a request for an ACR.

On receiving the `404` with the `Link` header given in our example, the client can make a request on `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>`, if it wants to look at the Access Control Rules. 
Since all resources in ACP have an associated ACR, the resource `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` should return a description of the sets of agents that can have access to the resource. 
This may include links to rules published elsewhere.

### WAC

In WAC, the effective ACR of a resource might be the ACR of a parent container of the resource.

In WAC, ACRs are called ACLs (Access Control Lists).

WAC's [Effective ACL Resource](https://solid.github.io/web-access-control-spec/#effective-acl-resource) discovery is described in [the WAC spec](https://solid.github.io/web-access-control-spec/) as follows:

> ##### Effective ACL Resource Algorithm
> To determine the effective ACL resource of a resource, perform the following steps. Returns string (the URI of an ACL Resource).
>
> 1. Let resource be the resource.
> 2. Let aclResource be the ACL resource of resource.
> 3. If resource has an associated aclResource with a representation, return aclResource.
> 4. Otherwise, repeat the steps using the container resource of resource.

Just as with ACP, the client can follow the `Link: <...acr>; rel="acl"` relation to find the rules of access. 
But then we have two cases with WAC:

1. the ACR exists and returns the rules 
2. the ACR returns a `404 Not Found`

In (1), everything follows like with ACP above.
In (2), the client then needs to start the recursive process of looking for the effective ACR. 
We will detail (2) next.

1. First the client is lucky enough to be shown the reverse `ldp:contains` relation, so it can do a HEAD on that to find its `ACL`.
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/bar/baz/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/baz/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/bar/>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/bar/baz/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

2. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/bar/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/bar/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/bar/baz/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

3. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD /foo/ HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —
```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </foo/.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </>; rev="http://www.w3.org/ns/ldp#contains"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will also return —
```HTTP
404 Not Found
```
— as the resource does not yet exist.

4. As a result, the client will need to look up one level in the hierarchy to search for the effective ACR:
```HTTP
HEAD / HTTP/1.1
```
— and with luck the server will respond —

```HTTP
200 Ok
Link: </.acr>; rel="acl"
```
The client can then continue with —
```HTTP
GET /foo/.acr HTTP/1.1
```
— to which the server will finally return the content.

The number of requests needed to find the default can be calculated by the forumla:
```
reqN = 2 * slashes + extraFile
```
where - 
* `slashes` is the number of slashes between the original resource and the effective ACR,
* `extraFile` is 0 if the resource is an ldp:Container and 1 if it is a plain resource.

So in our example above we have `reqN = 2 * 4 + 1 = 9`.

### WAC+

The WAC effective resource discovery algorithm, needed when default ACLs exist, is, as shown above, an expensive process for the client to follow, requiring a large number of failed requests.
We have three ways to fix this:
 * WAC+Trig — allows the server to return datasets, and so return the result in one request
 * WAC+:imports — shows how one can, as with ACP, have every resource come with its own ACR, but still allow defaults to work
 * WAC+rel=control — allows the server to publish two `Link` relations: one to the ACR, and the other to the effective ACR.

#### WAC+NTrig

A resource can let a client know that it supports dataset serialisation of its ACR by returning the following header with either a `200` or `401` HTTP result code as proposed in [issue 247](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/247):

```HTTP
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="acl"; type="application/trig"
```
                                                         
A client could then follow up with a request to `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` with `Accept: application/trig` header. The server could respond with, for example:

```HTTP
200 Ok
Content-Type: application/trig
Content-Length: ...

GRAPH <> {}
GRAPH </.default.acr> {
 <#authorization> a acl:Authorization ;
   acl:agentGroup </owner#me> ;
   acl:default </> ;
   acl:mode acl:Control .
}
```

This should be read as 
 * specifying that no triples exist in`</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` 
 * giving the triples in the `</.default.acr>` graph

With a slight adjustment to the WAC spec, this could still count as there being nothing other than the default, which would therefore still be active as default for the given resource.

#### WAC+:imports

Another way to allow default reasoning is to use `:imports` as proposed in [issue 210: add :imports relation](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/210). 

[Reactive Solid](https://github.com/co-operating-systems/Reactive-SoLiD) has every resource come with an ACR with content. But the server has ACRs for newly created resources explictly `:import` the parent, so that `</foo/bar/baz/x.acr>` returns —

```Turtle
<> :imports <.acr> .
```
— and `</foo/bar/baz/.acr>` returns —

```
<> :imports <../.acr> .
```

And so on, up to the root `</.acr>`.

Clients with control access to a resource can change the ACR to point straight to the root ACR.

#### WAC + TriG + :imports

Both of those answers can be combined of course.
This was proposed in the May 11th comment to [issue 210: add :imports relation](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/210#issuecomment-838747077).
                                      
#### WAC + acl=control

This is perhaps the simplest solution. By specifying another link relation type to non-created ACR resource, we can help the client find its way very quickly to the effective resource, without losing the ability to edit the most specific one. 
This is explained in [issue 248](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/248).  
               
```HTTP
Link: </.default.acr>; rel="acl"
Link: </foo/bar/baz/x.acr>; rel="control"
```
 

## See also

- [Access Control Resource discovery](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/228)
